Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission
2007-2008
Departmental Performance Report
The Honourable Lisa Raitt, P.C., M.P.
Minister – Natural Resources Canada
2
3
Table of Contents
SECTION I: OVERVIEW........................................................................................................... 5
Message from the President .....................................................................................................6
Management Representation Statement...................................................................................8
Summary Information...............................................................................................................9
Program Activities and Key Expected Results.......................................................................12
Nuclear Sector Overview........................................................................................................13
Status on CNSC’s Performance .............................................................................................14
SECTION II: ANALYSIS OF PROGRAM ACTIVITIES..................................................... 19
Analysis by Program Activity .................................................................................................20
Regulatory Framework ......................................................................................................... 21
Licensing and Certification................................................................................................... 25
Compliance ........................................................................................................................... 30
Cooperative Undertakings .................................................................................................... 35
Stakeholder Relations ........................................................................................................... 39
SECTION III: SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.......................................................... 41
Table 1: Comparison of Planned to Actual Spending (including FTEs) ..............................42
Table 2: Voted and Statutory Items ($ millions)....................................................................43
Additional Tables....................................................................................................................44
SECTION IV: OTHER ITEMS OF INTEREST..................................................................... 46
Performance of the Canadian Nuclear Power Industry........................................................47
External Performance Standards...........................................................................................50
CNSC’s Regulatory Plan........................................................................................................52
4
5
SECTION I: OVERVIEW
6
Message from the President
I am pleased to submit to Parliament the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission’s (CNSC) 2007–
2008 Departmental Performance Report.
The nuclear sector is experiencing significant growth as a result of the continuing rise in global
demand for energy and the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Combined with the
increasing use of nuclear technology in industry, research and medicine, this nuclear renaissance
is bringing about a considerable increase in the need for regulatory oversight – especially in
areas such as licensing for nuclear fuel mining and processing facilities.
The increase in Canadian energy requirements is occurring at a time when the country’s fleet of
existing nuclear power plants is aging. As a result, CNSC is receiving a significant number of
applications to refurbish and extend the life of existing nuclear power plants and to build new
nuclear power plants to meet energy demands. To ensure that CNSC can perform its regulatory
licensing and compliance responsibilities associated with this growth, we refocused efforts to
respond to these developments and the proposed plans for new uranium mining and processing,
while ensuring safety and security of existing facilities. In its Industry Report overview, CNSC
personnel concluded that the nuclear power plant industry operated safely throughout 2007. The
vast majority of safety areas and programs met CNSC expectations, and we are committed to
maintaining and improving this good safety and security record.
The CNSC achieved significant results during Fiscal Year 2007-2008. We improved
relationships with our stakeholders; reallocated resources to address the growing interest in new
nuclear power plants; streamlined and strengthened the regulatory framework; established a
foundation to improve Aboriginal consultations; and invested in our employees who are key to
the success of the organization. These are just a few examples of the excellent work CNSC has
undertaken over the past year to enhance the health, safety and security of Canadians and the
environment.
In late 2007, the extended shutdown of the National Research Universal (NRU) reactor in Chalk
River resulted in concerns about the supply of isotopes that are used for medical diagnostics and
treatments. As a result, the government issued a directive to CNSC to ensure that the health of
Canadians is taken into account in CNSC licensing decisions. This incident led CNSC and
Atomic Energy of Canada Limited to jointly commission a review by an independent third party.
The review will identify a number of critical lessons and resulting action plans, and provide
recommendations for improvement, which will be reviewed and implemented by CNSC during
the 2008-2009 Fiscal Year.
CNSC actively works with our international partners to share best practices in nuclear safety and
to strengthen Canada’s commitments to non-proliferation and the peaceful use of nuclear
materials. Our organization continues to actively participate in the activities of the International
Atomic Energy Agency and the Nuclear Energy Agency.
In the short time since my arrival, I have been impressed by the expertise and dedication of
CNSC’s workforce. Going forward, the recruitment and retention of skilled staff will remain an
7
important priority for CNSC. We will be strengthening our staffing efforts in a highly
competitive market to respond to industry growth.
I am committed to assuring Parliament and Canadians that the use of nuclear materials in nuclear
facilities is safe and secure.
With respect,
Michael Binder
President
8
Management Representation Statement
I submit for tabling in Parliament, the 2007-2008 Departmental Performance Report for The
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission.
This document has been prepared based on the reporting principles contained in the Guide for
the Preparation of Part III of the 2007-2008 Estimates: Reports on Plans and Priorities and
Departmental Performance Reports:
• It adheres to the specific reporting requirements outlined in the Treasury Board
Secretariat guidance;
• It is based on the department’s approved Strategic Outcome(s) and Program Activity
Architecture that were approved by the Treasury Board;
• It presents consistent, comprehensive, balanced and reliable information;
• It provides a basis of accountability for the results achieved with the resources and
authorities entrusted to it; and
• It reports finances based on approved numbers from the Estimates and the Public
Accounts of Canada.
________________________________________________
Michael Binder
President, Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission
9
Summary Information
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission’s Mandate
CNSC regulates nuclear energy and substances in Canada. Through its licensing, certification
and compliance processes, CNSC ensures that nuclear activities are carried out safely, in order to
protect people, their health and their environment. CNSC also works to ensure that Canadians
and Canadian companies respect Canada’s international commitments on the peaceful use of
nuclear energy.
CNSC was established in 2000 under the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA), and reports to
Parliament through the Minister of Natural Resources. The agency was created as a successor to
the former Atomic Energy Control Board, which was founded in 1946. CNSC’s mandate,
responsibilities and powers are set out in the NSCA and are elaborated in the Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission Rules of Procedure and the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission By-laws.
Through the NSCA, regulations, associated regulatory documents, licences and licence
conditions, CNSC regulates the entire Canadian nuclear cycle and all aspects of nuclear safety.
CNSC regulates:
• nuclear power plants
• uranium mines and mills
• uranium processing and fuel fabrication facilities
• nuclear research and test facilities and non-power reactors
• nuclear substance processing facilities
• radioactive waste and waste management facilities
• hospitals and cancer treatment centres
• heavy water production plants
The organization is also responsible for:
• regulating the use of nuclear substances and radiation devices, the packaging and transport of
nuclear substances, and the import and export of nuclear substances and equipment;
• certifying personnel who hold key safety-related jobs at nuclear facilities; and
• ensuring security at licensed nuclear facilities.
CNSC also has certain functions under the Nuclear Liability Act and conducts environmental
assessments under the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act (CEAA).
CNSC’s Commission Tribunal has up to seven permanent members, appointed by the Governor
in Council. The President of CNSC is a permanent full-time member, and other members may be
appointed to serve full or part time. Commission Tribunal members are chosen based on their
credentials and are independent of all political, governmental, special interest group or industry
influences.
10
The Commission Tribunal sets regulatory policy direction for the Canadian nuclear sector,
makes legally binding regulations, and renders licensing decisions for nuclear facilities and uses.
For licensing matters, the Commission Tribunal considers applicant proposals, recommendations
of CNSC personnel, and stakeholder views before making its decisions. For major facilities,
these licensing matters are considered through public hearings. To promote openness and
transparency, the Commission Tribunal conducts business to the greatest extent possible in
public hearings and meetings and, where feasible, in communities affected by the decision at
hand. Proceedings are available live on the Internet and online proceedings are archived, with a
three month retention period, on CNSC’s Web site, providing access to people across the country
and around the world.
Funding of CNSC Operations
CNSC's operations are currently funded through an annual appropriation from Parliament.
Its requirements are largely driven by the level of demand for licensing and regulatory oversight
and by Canada's international commitments. When its workload increases, CNSC applies to the
Treasury Board Secretariat to increase its cost-recoverable expenditures and related fee revenues
or to receive new program funding.
The Government of Canada recovers most costs associated with CNSC's regulatory activities
from licensees, in accordance with the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission Cost Recovery
Fees Regulations (2003). CNSC collects fees and deposits them to the Consolidated Revenue
Fund. Some licensees, such as hospitals and universities, are exempt from paying fees. In
addition, fees are not charged for activities that result from CNSC obligations that do not provide
a direct benefit to identifiable licensees. These include activities with respect to Canada's
international obligations (including the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons), public
responsibilities such as emergency management and public information programs, and updating
of the NSCA and associated regulations as appropriate.
Recently, due to growth in the nuclear sector, CNSC has experienced rapidly increasing demand
for its licensing, licensee certification and pre-project power plant design review activities, and
consequently explored alternate funding mechanisms to meet future resource requirements. In
2007-2008, CNSC received approval from Treasury Board for revenue spending authority
commencing in 2008-2009. This authority is being phased in over a two-year period, with full
implementation of revenue spending authority for all cost-recoverable activities effective for
2009-2010. The authority will enable CNSC to address growth within the nuclear sector.
Additional Funding Received for 2007-2008
For 2007-2008, CNSC's actual expenditures were $99.8 million. Fees received were
approximately $72.6 million. As a result of growing activity in all areas of the nuclear
sector over the past several years, CNSC has experienced a substantial increase in its
workload in most areas of its responsibility.
11
In its 2006 budget, the Government of Canada recognized CNSC's need to expand and
allocated it additional funds of more than $93 million, the majority of which is
recoverable from licensees, to improve regulatory oversight over a five-year period. Of
this funding, $23.9 million was allocated to the plan for 2007-2008. These additional
resources enabled CNSC to fund the growth of its regulatory program, including
overseeing nuclear power reactor refurbishment projects, expansion of uranium mining,
research facilities, waste management, the use of nuclear substances, (including
healthcare facilities), and addressing risks to security of nuclear facilities, while
implementing a range of improvement initiatives.
In the 2007-2008 Supplementary Estimates “B”, CNSC requested $0.96 million from
Treasury Board to carry out a specific Commission Tribunal Order. These resources were
required for the seizure and disposition of nuclear substances and prescribed equipment
held by a licensee.
In addition, after the receipt of two applications for site licensing for construction of new
power reactors in Canada, CNSC requested and received approval for incremental
funding in 2006-2007 that included funding of $5.6 million for 2007-2008 to process
these site licensing applications. These funds are also required to modernize CNSC’s
regulatory framework for the construction of new power plants in Canada. CNSC will
continue to prepare to meet new demands with respect to new nuclear power plants and
its responsibilities for domestic safeguards and non-proliferation as it shifts to a revenuespending
regime.
12
Program Activities and Key Expected Results
The CNSC works to achieve its strategic outcome through a single operational program
activity: nuclear regulation. This program activity is sub-divided into five key programs
or sub-activities that support CNSC’s above-mentioned priorities.
The following table outlines the CNSC’s status on performance through its program
activity architecture:
2007-2008 Status on Performance
Strategic Outcome: Safe and secure nuclear installations and processes solely for peaceful purposes; and public confidence in the
nuclear regulatory regime’s effectiveness.
Program
Activity
Program Sub-
Activity Expected Results Performance
Status
Planned
Spending Authorities Actual
Spending
Link to
CNSC
Priorities
and GoC
Outcomes
Regulatory
Framework
A clear and pragmatic
regulatory framework
successfully
met1 10,531 11,422 12,583
Licensing and
Certification
Individuals and
organizations that
operate safely and
conform to safeguards
and non-proliferation
requirements
successfully
met 22,752 24,677 22,670
Compliance
High levels of
compliance with the
regulatory framework
successfully
met 35,811 39,781 36,176
Cooperative
Undertakings
Cooperation and
integration of CNSC’s
activities in
national/international
nuclear fora.
successfully
met 18,155 19,691 18,644
Nuclear
Regulation:
To regulate the
use of nuclear
energy and
materials to
protect health,
safety, security
and the
environment
and to respect
Canada’s
international
commitments
on the peaceful
use of nuclear
energy
Stakeholder
Relations
Stakeholders’
understanding of the
regulatory program
successfully
met 7,306 7,924 9,772
CNSC
Priorities: 1,2
and 3
GoC
Outcome:
Social
Affairs –
Safe and
Secure
Communities
Total Financial Resources ($ thousands) 94,555 103,495 99,845
Planned Actual Difference
Total Human Resources (Full-Time Equivalent) 730 639 91
1 While some targets were not met, much work was done throughout the fiscal year and completed shortly into April
2008.
13
Nuclear Sector Overview
The Canadian nuclear sector is experiencing rapid expansion driven by three key global trends:
Rising worldwide energy demand
Projections indicate that global energy demand will continue to grow, with forecasts of a 50
percent increase by 2030. Electricity generation is also projected to nearly double by then, with
concentration on renewable and alternative energy sources. Canadian electricity demand is
expected to rise 1.3 percent annually until 2020, leading to a need for sustainable, clean energy
sources, including projected increases in nuclear energy. By the year 2030, it is expected that 55
countries will operate more than 600 nuclear power plants. In turn, this will lead to greater global
demand for uranium and a need for uranium mining and development. As the world’s largest
producer of uranium, Canada will be a key player in meeting the demand for nuclear energy.2
Increasing concern about climate change
At the same time, climate change is becoming an increasing concern and there is emerging
international pressure for low-carbon economies and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. The
Government of Canada has indicated that it will do its part by investing in electricity sources that
include nuclear power.
Growing use of medical isotopes
There is a trend towards greater use of nuclear radioisotopes, particularly in medical imaging.
Radioisotopes and radiation therapy equipment are also required for cancer treatments, for which
the need is increasing, with Canada’s aging population and an expected growth in cancer rates.
Canada’s number of Class II nuclear facilities, mainly cancer treatment centres, has doubled over
the past five years. On December 10, 2007, the Government of Canada issued a Directive to
CNSC regarding the health of Canadians, instructing the organization to take into account the
health of Canadians in regulating the production, possession and use of nuclear substances.
These trends are all shaping an increased demand for nuclear energy and materials, and CNSC is
responding to meet the challenges associated with regulating an expanding nuclear industry. As
Canada’s nuclear regulator, CNSC is committed to ensuring that nuclear activities are conducted
safely and securely, and that the health of Canadians and their environment are protected.
2 Sources: International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2006; Energy Information Administration,
International Energy Outlook 2007; Ux Consulting, Nuclear Power Outlook, October 2007.
14
Status on CNSC’s Performance
CNSC Program Priorities for 2007-2008
Manage growth of the regulatory program
CNSC is addressing the growing interest in building new nuclear power plants in Canada as
existing nuclear reactors age. As part of its increased focus on new nuclear power plants, CNSC
has begun modernizing its regulatory framework to bring it in line with current international
standards and to apply these standards to projects for building new nuclear plants.
CNSC is clarifying regulatory expectations, particularly for potential new nuclear power plants,
by establishing clear licence requirements and creating guidelines to help licensees meet them.
Key regulatory documents RD-337, Design Requirements for New Nuclear Power Plants and
RD-346, Site Evaluation for New Nuclear Power Plants, were completed over the past year and
will be presented for final Commission Tribunal approval in early 2008-2009.
CNSC has been working with the Government of Canada to secure additional long-term
resources. In 2007-2008, CNSC received approval to change the mechanism of funding costrecoverable
activities from the annual Parliamentary appropriation to a new revenue spending
authority regime. This regime, with full implementation effective for 2009-2010, will enable
CNSC to face current and future workload pressures associated with the growing number and
needs of licensees.
In the face of considerable nuclear sector expansion, CNSC requires sufficient staff to continue
delivering its mandate. Through aggressive, innovative approaches to recruitment and retention,
CNSC worked during 2007-2008 to secure highly qualified employees in a competitive labour
market.
Deliver an effective regulatory program for existing facilities
CNSC is committed to assuring Canadians of the safety and security of current nuclear activities
in Canada, and its day-to-day operations focus on delivering an effective regulatory program for
existing facilities.
In response to the nuclear industry’s plans to refurbish existing nuclear reactors, in order to meet
growing energy demands, CNSC has devoted significant time and effort to clarify the regulatory
expectations related to nuclear power plants and provide strong regulatory oversight for
refurbishment activities currently in progress. For all the Canadian nuclear power plants
undergoing refurbishment (Point Lepreau Generating Station, Bruce A Nuclear Generating
Station and Pickering B Nuclear Generating Station), CNSC required integrated safety reviews
15
(ISRs)3, prepared and submitted by licensees in accordance with the IAEA’s Periodic Safety
Review of Nuclear Power Plants – Safety Guide.
In its sustained commitment to stringent oversight of existing facilities, CNSC reviewed
applications to renew or amend existing licences, to verify that licensees would continue to
operate safely and in accordance with regulations and licence conditions. Based on these
reviews, the Commission Tribunal renewed and amended licences for existing facilities, which
included nuclear power plants, uranium mines and waste management facilities.
Through inspections, reviews and assessments, CNSC staff concluded that the nuclear power
industry operated safely during 2007. The evaluation of safety areas and programs, as presented
in its annual CNSC Staff Report on the Safety Performance of the Canadian Nuclear Power
Industry, showed that overall, licensees made adequate provision for the protection of the
environment, health and safety of persons, and undertook all the measures required to implement
Canada’s international obligations. No worker at any nuclear power station or member of the
public received a radiation dose in excess of regulatory limits, and emissions from all plants were
well below regulatory limits. This finding is consistent with those of previous years.
For information on the National Research Universal (NRU) Reactor, please see the Highlight at
the end of this section.
Implement improvement initiatives
Initiatives are underway to coordinate the environmental assessment process for new major
projects. CNSC worked with the Canadian Environmental Assessment Agency to develop the
framework for the conduct of joint review panels for major nuclear projects. A joint review panel
integrates environmental assessments and licensing requirements into a single, concurrent
process. The panel is established as a single body to make appropriate decisions at different
stages for the environmental assessment and first licence application for a project, while offering
significant opportunities for public participation and exchange of views. In early Spring 2008,
consultations will be launched for the proposed joint review panel agreements and environmental
impact statement guidelines concerning the proposed Bruce Power New Build project and
Ontario Power Generation Inc.’s Deep Geologic Repository.
To address industry growth in Canada, CNSC is creating a new Directorate of Regulatory
Improvement and Major Projects Management. The Directorate, expected to be established early
in the 2008-2009 fiscal year, will be a single point of contact for all new build activities,
consolidates the skills and expertise required to address major projects like new reactor design
reviews and applications for new uranium mines and new power reactors.
3 When considering a life extension project for a nuclear power plant, the licensee must also undertake an integrated
safety review (ISR), which is a comprehensive assessment of nuclear power plant design and operation. The ISR
evaluates the plant’s current state, operations and performance, in order to determine how well the plant conforms to
modern standards and practices, and to identify any factors that would limit safe long-term operation.
16
The Major Projects Management Office (MPMO), established by the Government of Canada’s
Regulatory Improvement Initiative in late 2007, aims to improve regulatory co-ordination by
providing licence applicants with a single, efficient point of entry into the federal regulatory
process. The MPMO was established to enhance transparency, predictability, timeliness and
accountability of the regulatory review and Aboriginal consultation processes for major natural
resource projects, while maintaining existing regulatory responsibilities. CNSC is committed to
working with the MPMO to share best practices and project plans for the regulation of major
nuclear projects.
Enhance external engagement and outreach
While not explicitly a program priority, CNSC is expanding its communications and outreach
activities to fully engage Canadians, hear their concerns and respond to them. During 2007-2008,
CNSC visited and consulted with communities throughout Canada to share information and
gather public input on environmental assessments and licensing decisions, the performance of
the nuclear power industry, and proposed changes to regulatory documents.
In line with its commitment to outreach, CNSC is improving accessibility to the public and
licensees, with a special focus on Aboriginal consultations. CNSC is making greater use of the
Web to inform all Canadians about the nuclear sector and nuclear safety, gather public feedback,
respond to concerns, increase transparency, and offer online licensee services.
These four key priorities drive all CNSC activities, which are discussed in Section II of the DPR
and are underscored by the guiding principles of safety, simplification of processes, clarification
of requirements and expectations, timeliness, and transparency.
CNSC Management Priorities for 2007-2008
For this timeframe, management priorities focus on improving management practices and
controls, and enabling the necessary infrastructure to ensure an effective delivery of the
regulatory program.
Quality Management Systems
During the reporting period, CNSC developed and released its Management System Manual,
which identifies high-level principles and processes by which the organization achieves its goals
and objectives. The manual provides a framework for more detailed processes and procedures,
and is a key document for all CNSC employees.
CNSC developed a standard for the consistent application of its licensing and compliance
activities across the organization.
17
Detailed technical assessment processes and review guides were initiated, to support applications
for new power reactors.
An electronic document and records management system was introduced in 2007-2008.
CNSC made strides towards developing information systems and processes which increase
compliance with federal security standards for communications networks, electronic document
handling technologies and appropriate administrative procedures.
Federal Accountability Act
CNSC created a Contract Review Committee, to ensure that contractual activities are conducted
fairly and openly, and undertook initiatives to strengthen internal control and policy
management.
Implementation of a First Collective Agreement
After signing a first collective agreement in 2006, CNSC consulted regularly with the employee
union on labour relations. The agreement, which took effect in late 2006, covered the period
from June 14, 2004 to March 31, 2008, and will be renegotiated for the upcoming year.
CNSC has also worked to maintain a productive working relationship, through consultations
with the bargaining agent and with employees that are not represented.
18
Highlight: AECL Chalk River Laboratories National Research Universal Reactor
In November 2005, CNSC renewed the operating licence for the National Research Universal
(NRU) reactor with a licence condition that seven safety upgrades would be fully operational by
December 31, 2005. In July 2006, the NRU licence was renewed for a further 63 months.
In late 2007, there was a licensing concern related to the National Research Universal (NRU)
reactor in Chalk River. Specifically, two of the main heavy water pumps were not connected to
the hazards-qualified emergency power supply. At the time, the NRU reactor was shut down for
routine maintenance. AECL subsequently informed CNSC that it would not restart the NRU
reactor on November 22 as originally planned until the situation was corrected.
In early December 2007, AECL requested regulatory approval to operate the NRU for a limited
period of time with only one of the two pumps connected to the emergency power supply. CNSC
apprised AECL that a complete safety case and request for licence amendment were required
before the matter could be referred to the Commission Tribunal for a decision. Subsequently, on
December 10, the Ministers of Natural Resources Canada and Health Canada wrote to the
Presidents of CNSC and AECL, urging them to work together to restart the reactor safely with
due regard for those relying on the medical isotopes produced by the NRU. The Government of
Canada also issued a Directive to CNSC on December 10, instructing it to take into account the
health of Canadians who, for medical purposes, depended on nuclear substances from nuclear
reactors. The reactor remained shut down.
On December 11 and 12, 2007, the House of Commons and Senate respectively passed a law that
authorized AECL to operate the NRU reactor for 120 days with certain conditions. The reactor
was restarted on December 16 and production of medical isotopes resumed within days.
On January 14, 2008, Ms. Linda J. Keen was removed from her position as CNSC’s President by
the Governor in Council. Mr. Michael Binder was appointed as the organization’s President on
January 15.
CNSC has initiated a review of lessons learned as part of its culture of continuous improvement.
The review, conducted by an independent consulting firm, will provide a concise overview of
key findings and recommended improvements that will prevent a repeat occurrence.
The review team is examining the performance of CNSC over the period leading up to and
pursuant to the Commission Tribunal decision to renew the NRU reactor operating licence, as
well as the period leading up to AECL's decision to shut down the reactor. AECL is also
conducting a lessons-learned review using the same independent consultants.
CNSC will respond to the consultants’ report, recommendations and resulting action plans
during the 2008-2009 fiscal year, once it has received and reviewed the report.
19
SECTION II: ANALYSIS OF PROGRAM ACTIVITIES
20
Analysis by Program Activity
The Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission has a single strategic outcome: to ensure that
nuclear installations and processes are safe and secure, and that they are used solely for
peaceful purposes; and to promote public confidence in the nuclear regulatory regime’s
effectiveness. In support of this outcome, CNSC is exclusively focused on nuclear regulation.
Within its nuclear regulatory activity, CNSC has five program sub-activities, which represent
key areas to achieving the priorities identified in Section I, along with the expected results of its
program and strategic outcome.
The following tables illustrate actual performance against commitments (from CNSC’s 2007-
2008 Report on Plans and Priorities.)
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
21
Program Sub-Activity: Regulatory Framework
Expected Outcome: A clear and pragmatic regulatory framework
Description: To develop a modern, evergreen, Canadian regulatory regime that considers all available
science as well as operating experience and input of Canadian operators, other stakeholders and the
international community, with the purpose to develop new and amend existing CNSC regulations, and
create regulatory policies, standards and guides that set out the CNSC’s regulatory criteria and
expectations.
2007-2008
Resources:
($ thousands)
Full-Time Equivalents
Planned Spending
10,531
82
Total Authorities
11,422
Actual Spending
12,583
Outcome Measures Target 2007-2008
Results
Achieved
Challenges and/or Lessons Learned
Percentage of regulations
under review / revision in
each year (the target of
20% per year will ensure a
complete rolling review
over a 5-year period)
20% 30%
Number of regulations
published in Canada
Gazette
3 14
Number of regulatory
documents finalized and
published
15 55
The number and the nature of comments on draft
regulations have taken longer to address than
planned. These delays meant missing scheduled
meetings of the Commission and Treasury Board
for approval. As a result, project timelines were
extended, pushing the steps for final approval into
April 2008.
The number and nature of comments on high
priority draft regulatory documents contributed to a
shortage of resources, especially in the area of
technical expertise, and made it a challenge to meet
targets.
2007-2008
RPP Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
Complete current regulatory documents development program and necessary amendments
to regulations for existing facilities as follows:
A modern
evergreen,
Canadian
regulatory
regime
• Develop regulatory policies,
standards and guides, and
address gaps created by industry
growth, on issues such as waste,
new power reactors, expansion
of mines and processing
facilities, fire protection, aging
of power reactors, and integrated
The CNSC published the following key regulatory
documents to provide guidelines to address gaps in
regulatory requirements and guidance:
• RD-360, Life Extension of Nuclear Power
Plants
• RD-204, Certification of Persons Working at
Nuclear Power Plants
• RD-310, Safety Analysis for Nuclear Power
4A total of three regulatory proposals were made by the Commission in 2007-2008. However, amendments to the
Class II Nuclear Facilities Regulations and the Nuclear Substances and Radiation Devices Regulations and
miscellaneous amendments to the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission Cost Recovery Fees Regulations were not
registered and published in the Canada Gazette Part II until April 2008.
5 Development work was completed for RD-58, Thyroid Screening for Volatile Radioiodine, and final approval was
received from the Commission Tribunal in April 2008. An additional five document projects were completed and
are scheduled for presentation for final approval in early 2008-2009.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
22
2007-2008
RPP Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
safety management Plants
• G-323, Ensuring the Presence of Sufficient
Qualified Staff at Class I Nuclear Facilities –
Minimum Staff Complement, and
• S-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear
Power Plants
• Develop new Nuclear
Safeguards Regulations based on
the requirements of the Canada -
IAEA Safeguards Agreement and
Additional Protocol
CNSC staff continued to work on new Nuclear
Safeguards Regulations to clarify and consolidate
measures to be undertaken by licensees to meet the
requirements of the NSCA and the Safeguards
Agreement and Additional Protocol between
Canada and the IAEA.
Progress on this initiative is slower than expected,
since priority is being given to the development and
establishment of a State-level integrated safeguards
approach, the effort to effectively implement new
requirements arising from the Additional Protocol
to the Canada/IAEA safeguards agreement remains
higher than anticipated. Both activities are diverting
technical staff from this regulatory initiative.
• Revise the following regulations:
o Nuclear Substances and
Radiation Devices
Regulations
o Class II Nuclear Facilities
and Prescribed Equipment
Regulations
o Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Import and Export Control
Regulations
o Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission Rules of
Procedure and Canadian
Nuclear Safety Commission
By-laws
CNSC amended the Nuclear Substances and
Radiation Devices Regulations and the Class II
Nuclear Facilities and Prescribed Equipment
Regulations, with related consequential
amendments to the General Nuclear Safety and
Control Regulations and the Class I Nuclear
Facilities Regulations.
The amendments to these regulations address some
deficiencies that came to light since the original
implementation in May 2000, and correct some
inconsistencies, in order to better protect workers,
the public and the environment, and adopt the latest
international standards for exemption values and
clearance levels.6
CNSC sought initial comments from stakeholders
on proposed amendments to the Class II Nuclear
Facilities and Prescribed Equipment Regulations,
requiring the certification of Radiation Safety
Officers for Class II nuclear facilities. 7
Amendments to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Import and Export Control Regulations were
6 The changes were registered and published in Part II of the Canada Gazette after fiscal year end.
7 The majority of Class II nuclear facilities are cancer clinics that use a wide variety of radioactive nuclear
substances, together with particle accelerators, to treat cancer.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
23
2007-2008
RPP Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
developed in 2007-2008, to ensure that CNSC
import/export control requirements for nuclear and
nuclear-related dual-use items continue to meet
international standards. Comments from industry
were sought prior to completing the draft
regulations.
Continued progress has been made on amendments
to the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission Rules
of Procedure and the Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission By-laws.
Produce regulatory documents for
new activities (new reactor
construction, uranium mining and
milling expansion, waste
repositories, Class II facilities etc.)
The Commission Tribunal approved for
consultation the following key documents that set
out guidance related to the siting and design of new
nuclear power plants:
• RD-346, Site Evaluation for New Nuclear
Power Plants, and
• RD-337, Design of New Nuclear Power Plants
CNSC developed RD-58, Thyroid Screening for
Volatile Radioiodine, which provides guidance on
screening programs for volatile radioiodines, which
are used in medical and research facilities. Final
approval from the Commission Tribunal was
anticipated for April 2008.
Improve and update the regulatory
framework, in order to make it more
strategic, internationally
benchmarked and forward-looking,
while maintaining its transparency
CNSC strengthened the roles and responsibilities of
its Regulatory Policy Committee (RPC), as a way to
ensure that the management of CNSC’s regulatory
framework is better aligned with the organization’s
overall strategic direction and with developments in
the nuclear sector.
In September 2007, the Commission Tribunal
approved a revised regulatory framework, proposed
by the RPC, for the development and approval of
regulations and regulatory documents.
CNSC is also responding to the renewed focus on
regulation, as set out in the Cabinet Directive on
Streamlining Regulation (CDSR). Amongst other
policy objectives, the CDSR calls for expanded
consultation with stakeholders on regulatory
initiatives. In line with this requirement, CNSC took
steps to enhance its existing stakeholder
consultation efforts, by holding information
sessions on key regulatory documents related to the
siting and design of new nuclear power plants, and
by posting the public comments related to these
documents on its Web site, for further comment.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
24
2007-2008
RPP Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
A modernized
safeguards
framework for
Canada
Design and implement a new
national safeguards system to
complement international
agreements
In 2007-2008, CNSC examined proposals for the
establishment of a national verification framework
aimed at controlling and reporting on the use of
nuclear materials in Canada, and benchmarked the
proposals against similar frameworks in other
countries.
As part of the move towards a new approach for the
implementation of IAEA’s verification system in
Canada, the latest accomplishments include the
implementation of a new way to verify the transfer
of spent fuel at multi-unit reactor stations, and
significant progress in the revision of safeguards
verification processes at uranium processing
facilities and nuclear power reactors.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
25
Program Sub-Activity: Licensing and Certification
Expected Outcome: Individuals and organizations that operate safely and conform to
safeguards and non-proliferation requirements
Description: Issuance of licences and/or certifying persons and prescribed equipment to conduct nuclearrelated
activities in Canada. In order to issue a licence or a certificate, the CNSC must obtain evidence of
the licensee’s ability to operate safely and conform to safeguards and non-proliferation obligations.
2007-2008
Resources:
($ thousands)
Full-Time Equivalents
Planned Spending
22,752
195
Total Authorities
24,677
Actual Spending
22,670
Outcome Measures Target
2007-2008
Results
Achieved
Challenges and/or Lessons Learned
Number of Significant
Development Reports
(SDRs) subsequent to
licence approval
n/a 19 SDRs CNSC staff members assess the significance of all
events or situations that are outside the normal
operations described in the licensing documents.
Significance is determined by using operational
procedures or formalized expert judgement.
Situations deemed to be of high significance with
respect to the protection of health, safety and the
environment, the maintenance of security, and
compliance with international obligations shall be
reported to the Commission in an SDR Commission
Member Document (CMD).
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
Document internal licensing
policies, processes and
procedures, and implement the
tools required for a consistent and
effective licensing and
certification process.
CNSC created high-level process maps for its
licensing activities. These documents will serve as a
blueprint for consistent, well-founded regulatory
decisions.
The licensing system database continues to be
improved for licence administration, and is integrated
with compliance activities, regulatory activity
planning and monitoring.
Prepared Review Guides for the site preparation of
licensing process for new nuclear power plants. This
process increases the potential for high quality
submissions from proponents.
Develop and
implement riskinformed,
consistent and
predictable
licensing and
certification
processes
Complete documentation on and
improvements to CNSC’s
environmental assessment and
oversight programs
CNSC has been working with the Canadian
Environmental Assessment Agency (CEAA) to
develop the Guidelines and Joint Panel Agreement
for environmental assessments related to new
reactors.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
26
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
An agreement between the Canadian Environmental
Assessment Agency (CEAA) and CNSC was
finalized with respect to the establishment of two
Joint Review Panels: one for the siting and
construction of new nuclear power reactors by Bruce
Power within the municipality of Kincardine, ON,
and the other for the construction of a Deep Geologic
Repository project by Ontario Power Generation,
also in Kincardine, ON.
Early referral of the environmental assessment should
speed up the process and has given stakeholders a
shorter time period to apply for a licence before the
Commission.
Implemented an Integrated Document Review
process to achieve consistent, high quality and
predictable documentation. This process has a builtin
peer review step, which increases confidence in
reviews and provides consistency.
Prepared Review Guides for the environmental
components of licensing process for new nuclear
power plants. This process increases the potential for
high quality submission from proponents.
Implement processes for licensing
new nuclear facilities including,
but not limited to, new nuclear
power plants and new waste
management facilities
Implementation of the licensing process for Ontario
Power Generation (OPG) Darlington & Bruce Power
new nuclear power plants. Study for the OPG Deep
Geological Repository continued.
Implement the provisions of the
Code of Conduct on the Safety
and Security of Radioactive
Substances, including initiatives
to strengthen export/import
licensing and control risksignificant
sources
CNSC has implemented inventory tracking controls
using a Sealed Source Tracking System (SSTS),
within an upgraded National Sealed Source Registry
(NSSR). Using a secure Web-based system, licensees
report possession and transactions involving sealed
sources within strict reporting timeframes. The SSTS
and NSSR allow CNSC to track high-risk radioactive
sealed sources from their manufacture to their final
disposition. To implement the system, CNSC
amended licences to legally require the reporting of
radioactive source transactions.
As of April 1, 2007, those wishing to export
Category 1 or Category 2 sealed sources need to
obtain transaction-specific export licences from
CNSC. During 2007-2008, CNSC issued more than
300 licences for sealed-source exports to more than
40 countries. With this step, CNSC is now fully
compliant with the Code of Conduct on the Safety
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
27
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
and Security of Radioactive Sources and its
supplementary Guidance on the Import and Export of
Radioactive Sources. Together with the NSSR, the
strengthened controls will assure Canadians and the
global community of secure international transfers.
As the first country with such robust inventory
tracking, Canada has set an international example for
ensuring the safety and security of high-risk
radioactive sealed sources.
CNSC is working to establish clear and harmonized
working arrangements and understandings with its
counterparts in importing countries.
CNSC regulates the largest volume of export
transactions of risk-significant radioactive sources
(RSRS) globally, and strongly advocates the sharing
of best practices and experiences internationally, as
additional key to reviewing experiences in
implementing export/import controls.
In 2007, the registry had information on 13,556
radioactive sealed sources in Canada, an increase of
6,406 over the previous year. The SSTS registered
more than 39,000 transactions of all types throughout
the year, which represents a 31-percent increase over
2006. This dramatic increase is partly attributed to
increased outreach, which resulted in better
awareness in the licensed community, and partly to
the inclusion of new information in the database
submitted by manufacturers of sealed sources.
Improve the
effectiveness and
efficiency of the
Commission
Tribunal licensing
process
Evaluate the tribunal process and
implement recommendations
During 2007-2008, the Commission Tribunal held a
greater number (29) of abridged hearings, which
allow certain types of licence amendments to be
addressed more efficiently. Abridged hearings, which
deal with decisions that are administrative in nature –
or when the licence amendments requested are less
significant or are for licence replacements – provide
greater efficiency and speed of process.
Review and make
recommendations
to the Tribunal
with respect to
applications for
renewal of
current licenses
across the
regulatory
program
Manage the licensing of existing
licensees
The Commission Tribunal made 43 decisions related
to nuclear facilities. A complete listing of hearings
can be found on CNSC’s Web site
www.nuclearsafety.gc.ca. Also, the CNSC met two
of its three performance standard targets related to
licensing.
CNSC renewed operating licenses for the following
waste management facilities:
• Ontario Power Generation’s (OPG) Darlington
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
28
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
waste management facility
• OPG’s Pickering waste management facility
• OPG’s Western waste management facility
located at their Bruce Nuclear Generating Station
Hydro Quebec’s operating licence for their waste
facility located in Gentilly, Quebec was amended to
permit the construction of a new waste area.
OPG was granted an operating licence for their newly
completed used dry fuel storage facility located at
their Darlington Nuclear Generating Station.
New Brunswick Power received approval from the
CNSC to operate the newly completed Phase 1
expansion of their Point Lepreau, New Brunswick
waste management facility.
Manage the certification of
personnel, packages and
prescribed equipment
As part of ongoing staff training initiatives, CNSC
continued to designate inspectors and train staff in
the conduct of verification activities.
CNSC will no longer directly examine shift
personnel whose positions are referred to in nuclear
power plant operating licences. The candidate’s
competence for CNSC certification will be verified
through increased regulatory oversight of the
licensees’ training and examination programs. RD-
204, Certification of Persons Working at Nuclear
Power Plants, which outlines the regulatory
requirements, was approved by the Commission
Tribunal on September 13, 2007, and published on
February 15, 2008.
CNSC issued 48 certificates related to transport (18
Canadian package design certificates, 20
endorsements of foreign package design certificates,
eight special form certificates and 2 special
arrangements certificates) and 52 certificates related
to certification of radiation devices and Class II
prescribed equipment.
Conduct environmental
assessments to respond to licence
applications for new mines, new
reactor construction, refineries,
waste repositories and Chalk
River Laboratories legacy projects
During 2007-2008, 27 environmental assessments
remained active and two were completed. Eleven
major environmental assessments underwent
extensive public consultation.
Three comprehensive studies were also underway.
These included drafting the environmental
assessment track report for AREVA Resources
Canada Inc.’s proposed uranium mining operations in
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
29
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
northern Saskatchewan for the Commission
Tribunal’s consideration.
Some of the key challenges are to ensure the proper
level of public consultation, including Aboriginal
consultation, and meeting government reporting
requirements for the Major Projects Management
Office (MPMO).
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
30
Program Sub-Activity: Compliance
Expected Outcome: High levels of compliance with the regulatory framework
Description: Effective oversight of compliance with regulatory requirements, which is critical to assuring
Parliament and the Canadian public that nuclear energy and materials are being used safely and securely, as
well as in a manner that respects Canada’s international commitments concerning their peaceful use.
2007-2008
Resources:
($ thousands)
Full-Time Equivalents
Planned Spending
35,811
284
Total Authorities
39,781
Actual Spending
36,176
Outcome Measures Target
2007-2008
Results
Achieved
Challenges and/or Lessons Learned
Levels of performance of
licensees as measured by
the CNSC through
inspections, events,
assessments, and
evaluations of compliance
with regulatory
requirements
B rating Most of the
ratings in the
2007 Industry
Report were “B”
grades (B =
meets
requirements)
Nuclear power plants ratings are assigned for both
the quality of the safety program and its
implementation. CNSC publishes the ratings
annually in the CNSC Staff Report on the Safety
Performance of the Canadian Nuclear Power
Industry. The report for 2007, along with those of
previous years, is available on CNSC’s Web site at
www.nuclearsafety.gc.ca.
100% provision by CNSC
of nuclear transfer
notifications and reports
pursuant to bilateral
administrative
arrangements
100% Achieved This result contributed to the effectiveness of
bilateral Nuclear Cooperation Agreements (NCAs)
and corresponding Administrative Arrangements
(AAs) provisions and measures. The initiative
provides greater assurance that exports and imports
of nuclear items subject to bilateral NCAs were
tracked and accounted for, both in Canada and in
partner NCA countries, and that such nuclear items
would therefore be used solely for peaceful purposes
and would not contribute to a nuclear proliferation
threat.
Annual IAEA statement
indicating Canada’s
compliance with
international requirements
with respect to safeguards
and non-proliferation
Positive
conclusion
from the
IAEA
Achieved For 2007, IAEA once again concluded that all
nuclear material in Canada was being used for
peaceful activities. Based upon the results of its
verification activities throughout the year and all
available safeguards-related information, the IAEA
declared that it found no indication of the diversion
of nuclear material, pursuant to the Canada/IAEA
safeguards agreement, and no indication of
undeclared nuclear material or activities in Canada.
Canada is one of 47 Member States for whom the
IAEA has drawn this comprehensive safeguards
conclusion.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
31
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
Complete the
implementation of
risk-informed and
consistent
compliance
process in all
regulated sectors
Document internal policies,
processes and procedures, and
implement the tools that support
the compliance process
CNSC created high-level process maps for its
compliance activities. These documents will serve as
a blueprint for compliance procedures, leading to
consistent, well-founded regulatory decisions and
licensing recommendations.
CNSC staff completed several checklists to
document radiation protection expectations to be
verified during routine Type II inspections of nuclear
power facilities.
Assure Canadians
of the continuing
compliance and
safety
performance of
licensees
Execute baseline compliance
program requirements
As stated in the 2007 Staff Report on the Safety
Performance of the Canadian Nuclear Power
Industry (Industry Report), CNSC concluded that
overall, the Canadian nuclear power plant industry
operated safely. The report for 2007, along with
those of previous years, is available on CNSC’s Web
site at www.nuclearsafety.gc.ca.
In 2007-2008, all nuclear cycle and research
facilities were inspected at least once by CNSC
inspectors. In total, 123 inspections were carried out,
resulting in a variety of follow-up activities to ensure
compliance with site-specific licences, the Nuclear
Safety and Control Act and its regulations. Of the
123 inspections conducted, nine were Type I
inspections and the remaining 114 were Type II
inspections.8
For nuclear substance regulation, CNSC
implemented a new standard regarding inspections
whereby an inspector will produce a report for issue
to the licensee within 60 business days of an
inspection. This condition was met in 90% of type II
inspections of high-risk licensees during 2007-2008.
Type I inspections have presented a challenge
because of rapid expansion at nuclear medicine
facilities at Canadian hospitals and an associated
increase in regulatory work. Mitigating strategies
have been put in place, enabling the CNSC to
identify potential risks early in the process and to
ensure the safety of the Canadian public despite
limited resources.
8 Type I inspections are thorough, resource-intensive, complex on-site reviews that assess and verify key areas of
licensee compliance. Type II inspections are point-in-time, snapshot verifications of licensee activities, which focus
on outputs or performance of licensee programs, processes and practices. Findings from Type II inspections play a
key role in identifying where a Type I inspection may be required to determine systemic problems in licensee
programs, processes or practices.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
32
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
CNSC staff also collaborated with Canada Border
Services Agency (CBSA) officials to address issues
of export detentions at the border resulting from
non-compliance with the NSCA or export licence
conditions.
CNSC continued to monitor existing uranium mines,
to verify compliance with regulatory and licence
requirements, and ensured that its findings were
accurately reported to stakeholders and the
Commission Tribunal.
Develop strategies to
promote/enforce compliance where
licensee deficiencies have been
identified, and responding to risksignificant
licensee reports and
findings
CNSC’s security specialists conducted five Type I
security inspections at Canadian nuclear power
plants and at Atomic Energy of Canada Limited’s
Chalk River Laboratories.
CNSC performed 15 Type II security inspections at
nuclear power plants, waste management facilities,
Chalk River Laboratories and at Atomic Energy of
Canada Limited’s Whiteshell Laboratories. CNSC
personnel also performed 150 Type II security
inspections at those licensed facilities that use sealed
radioactive sources.
CNSC personnel reviewed 10 site security reports
submitted by licensees who store Category I and II
nuclear material to ensure they met CNSC’s
requirements.
CNSC personnel also assessed 18 transportation
security plans, 118 transportation licence
applications, 30 import licence applications and 71
export licence applications from the security
requirements perspective.
CNSC worked actively with approximately 130
industrial radiography licensees and convened
regional meetings to explain regulatory
requirements, responding to licensee concerns and
describing new regulatory initiatives.
Assure
international
agencies that
nuclear material,
substances and
technologies in
Canada are used
in compliance
with the
Apply the requirements of
multilateral conventions and
arrangements
All imports of nuclear material (such as uranium)
into Canada were licensed and controlled through
CNSC import licences, issued under the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Import and Export Control
Regulations. In accordance with Canada’s
international commitments, CNSC also applied
additional accounting, tracking and administrative
controls, to assure Canada and the supplying country
that material would be used solely for peaceful
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
33
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and
Lessons Learned
purposes.
A key challenge is to assure that the Canadian
nuclear material tracking and accounting systems
remain responsive to the dynamic complexity of
global marketing and transfer processes involving
nuclear material (uranium), and therefore that
transfers of imported foreign-obligated material
within and from Canada can be adequately
accounted for and reported on pursuant to treaty
obligations with bilateral NCA partner countries.
Government of
Canada’s
international
commitments.
Implement the requirements of the
Canada-IAEA Safeguards
Agreement and Additional
Protocol for verification of the
peaceful use of nuclear energy in
Canada
In implementing the Canada/IAEA safeguards
agreement, CNSC reviewed and submitted an
unprecedented number (13) of new or updated
facility design information questions, which form the
basis for effective safeguards approaches. CNSC
personnel also worked extensively on new
safeguards approaches and procedures for the defuelling
of two reactors at the Pickering A Nuclear
Generating Station.
Assuring Canadians of the Continuing Compliance and Safety Performance of Licensees
CNSC’s role in enforcing compliance with nuclear substance-related licences was illustrated in
June 2007, when the Commission Tribunal concluded that 588972 Alberta Ltd. (operating as
Enviropac) in Edmonton, Alberta, was no longer qualified to carry on the activities authorized by
its licences. The Tribunal then suspended the storage, processing of unsealed nuclear substances,
and calibration licences that it had previously issued to Enviropac. In July 2007, CNSC seized all
nuclear substances and prescribed equipment at the Edmonton site, removed all the high-risk
sealed sources and transferred them to a licensed facility for further examination, pending a
federal court order for disposal. In February 2008, an independent contractor carried out the
necessary work to remove all remaining nuclear substances and prescribed equipment from the
Enviropac site, and the nuclear substances were stored at a licensed facility, also pending a
federal court order for disposal. Further investigation of the Enviropac building, in March 2008,
revealed that the radioactive contamination was greater than initially expected, and that it was
present in additional areas of the facility. The decontamination of these areas will continue in
2008.
On July 13, 2007, during a scheduled maintenance shutdown at the Cameco Port Hope
conversion facility, contamination in the soil beneath Building 50 was discovered in an
excavation made to install a new cooling water tank. Following this discovery, all production
operations inside the building were shut down, and an independent investigation to determine the
sources and extent of the contamination was initiated by Cameco Corporation. With the
discovery of this incident, CNSC and the Ontario Ministry of the Environment enhanced the
regulatory oversight of the situation to prevent unreasonable risk to human health and the
environment.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
34
In October 2007, Cameco submitted a root cause investigation report to the Commission, along
with a remedial action plan (RAP) to collect and treat the effected groundwater, as well as a plan
to rehabilitate Building 50, in order to address any potential adverse environmental impacts from
the incident. In mid-October 2007, CNSC personnel issued a request under subsection 12(2) of
the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations, directing Cameco Corporation to install a
groundwater treatment system to assist in mitigating potential impacts of the contamination.
Cameco Corporation was also requested to submit a revised RAP, to address the subsurface
contamination.
By the first quarter of 2008, a groundwater collection and treatment system had been installed,
and rehabilitation work within the building had been initiated. Approximately 660 tons of
concrete floors and 3,530 tons of soil located beneath Building 50 and adjacent to the south side
of the building were removed. The design and installation of the liquid effluent handling system
being installed by Cameco Corporation have been inspected extensively, as part of the enhanced
regulatory oversight undertaken throughout the event.
Most recent groundwater and surface water monitoring data indicated that, although trace
amounts of contaminants from the sub-surface of Building 50 had reached the Port Hope
harbour’s turning basin, there were no indications that water quality in the harbour had changed.
Based on the review of the information available to date, CNSC personnel concludes there is no
immediate risk to the environment or the general public.
It is anticipated that the production operations at Building 50 of Cameco Corporation’s Port
Hope conversion facility will resume by the fourth quarter of 2008. CNSC staff will continue its
enhanced regulatory oversight of the situation.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
35
Program Sub-Activity: Cooperative Undertakings
Expected Outcome: CNSC cooperates and integrates its activities in national/international
nuclear fora
Description: Involvement in international nuclear organizations, promoting Canadian interests, and
evaluating international recommendations, standards and guides for a possible integration in CNSC’s
regulatory framework.
2007-2008
Resources:
($ thousands)
Full-Time Equivalents
Planned Spending
18,155
112
Total Authorities
19,691
Actual Spending
18,664
Outcome Measures Target 2007-2008
Results
Achieved
Challenges and/or Lessons Learned
100 % annual
reconciliation by the
CNSC of bilateral nuclear
material inventory reports
100% Achieved Reconciliation of nuclear material accounts of
bilateral transfers of nuclear material provides
greater assurance that the exports and imports of
such nuclear material are solely for peaceful
purposes
All Annual Inventory Reports received by the CNSC
during 2007-2008 were reviewed, issues requiring
consultation for the purposes of reconciliation were
identified and a process/schedule for resolution
agreed with the CNSC’s foreign counterpart.
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
Effective, efficient
and cooperative
CNSC emergency
preparedness
framework and
infrastructure
Negotiate new agreements with
other government departments and
certain provinces
The amendment to Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with Emergency Management Ontario
negotiated and pending approval.
Strengthen and
improve the IAEA
safeguards system
Provide technical support and other
resources necessary to the IAEA’s
safeguards program
CNSC continued to provide technical advice to
Canada's Permanent Representative to the IAEA
during meetings of the IAEA Board of Governors.
CNSC provides Canada's representative to the IAEA
Director General's Standing Advisory Group on
Safeguards Implementation (SAGSI). The Canadian
representative is also the current chair of SAGSI, a
group of experts that provides advice on the
technical objectives and implementation of IAEA
safeguards and on the effectiveness and efficiency of
specific implementation practices. Participation in
this forum enables CNSC to influence the
international verification system and to provide input
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
36
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
based upon Canada’s experience.
CNSC also provides Canadian representation to the
IAEA Commission on Safety Standards (CSS) and
its subcommittees on standards for nuclear facilities,
radiation protection, transport and waste.
CNSC's regulatory expertise received international
recognition when the IAEA called upon CNSC staff
to participate in multilateral peer review missions to
Australia, Japan and Romania, to evaluate these
countries' regulatory frameworks and practices.
In 2007-2008, CNSC delivered a comprehensive
Canadian Safeguards Support Program (CSSP)
which provides technical support and other resources
to enhance the implementation of safeguards by
CNSC and the IAEA.
Establish and review cooperative
arrangements with foreign nuclear
regulators, and federal and
provincial organizations,
departments and agencies on an
ongoing basis
CNSC has also been working with other government
departments to ensure the safety and security of
radioactive materials. In December 2007, CNSC and
Transport Canada updated a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) first signed in 1981. The new
MOU clarifies responsibilities for the transport of
radioactive materials in Canada and promotes
enhanced collaboration and communication between
the two parties.
Effective, efficient and cooperative
CNSC emergency preparedness
framework and infrastructure
CNSC adopted a formal business continuity planning
program, which will enable the organization to
protect its resources and deliver critical services
during emergencies.
Effective
cooperation with
international,
federal and
provincial
organizations,
departments and
agencies
Conduct annual reviews of
cooperative arrangements with
foreign regulatory counterparts and
international organizations
CNSC conducted a review of its involvement in
activities of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation
and Development’s Nuclear Energy
Agency. CNSC continued to participate in and
contribute to the Multinational Design Evaluation
Programme coordinated by the NEA. This initiative
allows regulators who are evaluating new reactor
designs to pool their knowledge and experience,
thereby providing CNSC with an opportunity to
exchange information with its foreign counterparts.
In 2007-2008, the cooperative arrangement between
France's Nuclear Safety Authority (NSA) and CNSC
led to an enhanced cooperation agenda on various
issues, such as power reactor regulation, or the
regulation of tritium and of radiation therapy
activities.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
37
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
Renew existing regulatory
information cooperation
arrangements, where appropriate.
CNSC renewed its MOU on nuclear regulatory
cooperation with the Ministry of Science and
Technology (MOST) of the Republic of Korea,
which benefits the CNSC by providing enhanced
access to MOST’s scientific and technical expertise.
The CNSC maintains MOUs with regulatory
counterparts around the world, in order to strengthen
safety standards with respect to nuclear facilities,
through technical cooperation and information
exchanges in nuclear regulatory matters.
CNSC’s MOU with regulators in China and
Romania were due for renewal at the end of 2007-
2008, but unexpected high turnaround times caused
these to lapse. CNSC aims to renew these
agreements without further delay, and to incorporate
automatic renewal clauses in all MOUs.
Initiate new arrangements for
regulatory cooperation where
appropriate.
CNSC expanded its network of bilateral Memoranda
of Understanding (MOU) on regulatory cooperation,
signing arrangements with the Australian Radiation
Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency, the Republic
of Korea's Ministry of Science and Technology and
South Africa's National Nuclear Regulator. These
arrangements provide CNSC with improved
opportunities to share expertise on various issues,
including CANDU reactor regulation, research
reactor safety and uranium mining.
Following the June 11, 2007, signing of a
cooperative arrangement between South Korea's
Ministry of Science and Technology and CNSC,
meetings with South Korean regulatory
representatives were held throughout the year. These
meetings focused on technical discussions about
CANDU reactors (used in South Korea) and CNSC's
experience in integrating international standards into
domestic regulation.
Collaborate with Foreign Affairs
and International Trade Canada
with respect to the international
nuclear non-proliferation regime
and associated nuclear cooperation
with India, Romania and others.
CNSC collaborated with Defence Research and
Development Canada (DRDC) to develop and
deliver the International First Responder Training
Program, funded by Foreign Affairs and
International Trade Canada's Counter-Terrorism
Capacity Building Program. The program helps
beneficiary countries (currently Indonesia, Malaysia,
the Philippines and Thailand) improve their capacity
to respond to acts of chemical, biological,
radiological, nuclear and explosive terrorism. A
CNSC team traveling throughout Southeast Asia
conducted three training missions during 2007-2008,
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
38
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and/or
Lessons Learned
and nearly 2,000 first responders have received onsite
training to date. Canadian Embassies and High
Commissions in beneficiary countries have
applauded this program, which is recognized as a
flagship Canadian initiative.
CNSC worked with Foreign Affairs and
International Trade Canada, along with other
government departments, to help develop and
implement Canadian domestic and international
policy, programs, initiatives and measures in the
areas of nuclear non-proliferation, safeguards,
import/export control and security. This included
participating in a number of major non-proliferation
and safeguards-related initiatives and events:
• the 2007 Preparatory Committee meeting under
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons
• the Consultative Group and the Plenary of the
Nuclear Suppliers Group
• International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
General Conference and Board of Governors
• the IAEA Committee on Safeguards and
Verification
• the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear
Terrorism
• the G8 Non-Proliferation Directors Group
• the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership
CNSC provided technical and policy advice to
Foreign Affairs and International Trade Canada, in
negotiating and establishing new bilateral nuclear
cooperation agreements with potential nuclear
trading partner countries, and in amending existing
agreements. In addition, CNSC assisted with
ongoing implementation of provisions of existing
nuclear cooperation agreements by managing and
implementing bilateral administrative arrangements
with its foreign counterparts.
Determine, evaluate, track and
report the CNSC’s participation in
international activities on nuclear
matters
The CNSC has a number of tools at its disposal,
enabling it to centrally track its participation in
international activities, including a comprehensive
database which allows for efficient reporting. Staff
attending meetings abroad are required to prepare
trip reports – these allow management to evaluate
outcomes, promote efficient communication between
staff working on similar files and build corporate
memory.
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
39
Program Sub-Activity: Stakeholder Relations
Expected Outcome: Stakeholders’ understanding of the regulatory program
Description: Regular meetings with industry groups and non-government organizations on matters related to
the administration of the regulatory regime; outreach to communities hosting nuclear facilities; presentations
and speeches at conferences and other fora; media relations; and provision of information to the public on
regulatory matters.
2007-2008
Resources:
($ thousands)
Full-Time Equivalents
Planned Spending
7,306
57
Total Authorities
7,924
Actual Spending
9,772
Outcome Measures Target 2007-2008
Results
Achieved
Lessons Learned and/or Challenges
Level of stakeholder
confidence in CNSC’s
ability to regulate the use
of nuclear energy and
materials
TBD N/A To maintain a high level of stakeholder confidence,
CNSC visited, communicated and consulted with
communities throughout Canada, engaged licensees,
took steps to strengthen Aboriginal consultation,
continued to improve public communications and the
transparency of its process, and consulted with
stakeholders from industry, government and nongovernmental
organizations.
Level of stakeholder
participation in the
CNSC’s decision-making
process
TBD N/A CNSC consults regularly with stakeholders and
community members, sharing information about its
activities and gathering public input in order to develop
and maintain trust in its ability to regulate effectively.
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and Lessons
Learned
To foster
increased
awareness and a
high level of
confidence in the
CNSC as an
effective, efficient
and transparent
regulator
Develop and implement a
structured and sustainable
outreach program
CNSC has established a working group to improve
Aboriginal consultations.
CNSC is working to reach communities that are
directly affected by licensing decisions for nuclear
facilities, and seeks their opinions as part of the public
hearing process. The Commission Tribunal
demonstrated its commitment to community
engagement when it visited Oshawa in January 2008,
to hold a public hearing regarding the renewal of the
Darlington Nuclear Generating Station’s power reactor
operating licence. While in Oshawa, the Commission
also held a public hearing to consider the
Environmental Assessment screening report for
Zircatec Precision Industries Inc.’s proposed project to
produce slightly enriched uranium fuel bundles, among
other agenda items.
In 2007, CNSC launched a series of public information
2007-2008 CNSC Departmental Performance Report
40
2007-2008 RPP
Objective
2007-2008 RPP Plans 2007-2008 Results Achieved, Challenges and Lessons
Learned
sessions on the industry report, as a means of sharing
and discussing it with Canadians. These sessions
offered an opportunity to engage the public, by
providing information about nuclear safety while
responding to the general concerns expressed by some
host communities.
CNSC held meetings with the Canadian Organization
of Medical Physicists and conducted outreach activities
with WesCan to discuss proposed amendments to the
Class II Nuclear Facilities Regulations.
Increase communication efforts:
update and continue to implement
the CNSC strategic
communications and outreach
plan.
As of January 2008, Commission Tribunal hearings
and meetings are broadcast live on the Internet,
allowing people across the country and around the
world to view the proceedings. Meetings and hearings
are also archived on CNSC’s Web site, with a three
month retention period, for subsequent retrieval.
In September 2007, CNSC received approval from the
Commission Tribunal to hold public consultations
about two key regulatory documents regarding new
nuclear power plants (RD-337, Design of New Nuclear
Power Plants, and RD-346, Site Evaluation of New
Nuclear Power Plants). After reviewing all comments
received via consultations and the information session,
CNSC posted them on its public Web site and modified
RD-337 and RD-346 to reflect input where
appropriate.
CNSC meets periodically with representatives from the
Canadian Nuclear Association through the Canadian
Nuclear Association Regulatory Affairs Committee,
which enables industry representatives to provide input
and advice to CNSC on broader issues relating to
nuclear regulation in Canada. The committee provides
a forum for the industry association and CNSC to
indicate priorities, directions being taken, or factors
that are influencing their respective operations.
CNSC has a non-governmental organization (NGO)
Regulatory Affairs Committee, which communicates
and consults with NGOs on nuclear regulatory and
policy matters within its mandate. Co-chaired by a
member of the NGO community, the committee is a
forum for exchanging and clarifying information to
promote common understanding of issues, allowing
CNSC to better respond to the information needs of the
NGO community. It also enables NGO members to
provide input and advice to CNSC on broader issues
relating to nuclear regulation in Canada.
41
SECTION III: SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
42
Table 1: Comparison of Planned to Actual Spending (including FTEs)
($ millions) 2005–2006 2006–2007
2007–2008
Actual Actual Main Planned Total
Estimates Spending Authorities
Actual
Nuclear Regulation 75.5 85.3 94.5 94.6 103.5 99.8
Total 75.5 85.3 94.5 94.6 103.5 99.8
Less: Non-respendable
revenue (52.6) (60.0) N/A (61.4) N/A (72.6)
Plus: Cost of services
received without charge 8.2 8.6 N/A 9.7 N/A 10.1
Total Departmental
Spending* 31.2 33.9 N/A 42.9 N/A 37.3
Full-time Equivalents 517 569 N/A 730 N/A 639
Note: May not balance due to rounding
43
Table 2: Voted and Statutory Items ($ millions)
2007–2008
Main Planned Total
Vote or
Statutory
Item
Truncated
Vote or
Statutory
Wording Estimates Spending Authorities
Actual
20 Operating
expenditures 84.1 84.2 92.5 88.9
20 Grants and
contributions 0.4 0.4 1.0 1.0
(S)
Contributions
to employee
benefit plans
9.9 9.9 10.0 10.0
Total 94.5 94.6 103.5 99.8
Note: In 2007-2008, CNSC received authority from Treasury Board to amend the Class Grants and Contributions
program and remove the overall spending limit on Contributions. However, within this framework, CNSC still has
an annual maximum in Grant expenditures of $75,000.
44
Additional Tables
The following tables can be found electronically on the Treasury Board Secretariat’s Web site, at
http://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/dpr-rmr/2007-2008/index-eng.asp:
• Sources of Respendable and Non-Respendable Revenue
• User Fees/External Fees
• Response to Parliamentary Committees and External Audits
• Internal Audits and Evaluations
• Travel Policies
45
Financial Statements of Departments and Agencies (including Agents of Parliament)
and Revolving Funds Financial Statements
Financial statements are prepared in accordance with accrual accounting principles. The
unaudited supplementary information presented in the financial tables in this report is prepared
on a modified cash basis of accounting in order to be consistent with appropriations-based
reporting.
Financial statements are available online:
http://www.nuclearsafety.gc.ca/eng/readingroom/reports/annual/
46
SECTION IV: OTHER ITEMS OF INTEREST
47
Performance of the Canadian Nuclear Power Industry
Each year, CNSC publishes an annual Staff Report on the Safety Performance of the Canadian
Nuclear Power Industry (Industry Report), a comprehensive report card of the performance of
Canada’s five nuclear power reactor sites – Pickering, Darlington, Gentilly, Bruce and Point
Lepreau.
CNSC assesses licensee programs and their implementation separately, according to five ratings
that range from “A” (exceeds requirements) to “E” (unacceptable). Grades are assigned for both
the design of a program and its implementation, as well as for performance in each safety area
and for programs within each safety area.
In the 2007 Industry Report, CNSC personnel concluded that overall, the nuclear power plant
industry operated safely. The vast majority of safety areas and programs received “B” grades,
indicating that licensees met CNSC expectations. CNSC assigned a “C” grade where licensee
performance fell below CNSC requirements. Even though a “C” rating does not indicate an
unacceptable safety risk, CNSC continues to closely monitor facilities that received “C” grades,
to ensure that licensees or applicants are making every effort to mitigate the issues identified
throughout the year. No facility received a grade lower than a “C” in 2007.
48
Report Card on Nuclear Power Plant Performance as of January 2008
Legend:
P: Program I: Implementation
A = Exceeds requirements
B = Meets requirements
C = Below requirements
D = Significantly below requirements
E = Unacceptable
Notes:
• “C” grades are highlighted.
• The Bruce and Pickering sites receive separate grades for their respective facilities: Bruce A
and Bruce B, and Pickering A and Pickering B.
Safety Area/Program P or I Bruce Darlington Pickering Gentilly-2 Point
Lepreau
A B A B
Operating Performance P B B B B B B B
I B B B C B B B
Organization and Plant P B B B B B B B
Management I B B B C B B B
P B B B B B B B
Operations
I B B B C B B B
Occupational Health and P B B B B B B B
Safety (non-radiological) I A A A B B B B
Performance Assurance P B B B B B B B
I B B B C B B B
P B B B B B B B
Quality Management
I B B B C B C B
P B B B B B B B
Human Factors
I B B B C B B C
Training, Examination, P B B B B B B B
and Certification I C B B B B B B
Design and Analysis P B B B B B B B
I B B B B B B B
Safety Analysis P B B B B B B B
I B B B B B B B
P B B B B B B B
Safety Issues
I B B B B B B B
Design P B B B B B B B
49
Safety Area/Program P or I Bruce Darlington Pickering Gentilly-2 Point
Lepreau
A B A B
I C B B C B B B
Equipment Fitness P B B B B B B B
for Service I B B B B B B B
P B B B B B B B
Maintenance
I C B B B B B B
P B B B B B B B
Structural Integrity
I B B B B B B B
P B B B B B B A
Reliability
I B B B B B B B
P B B B B B B B
Equipment Qualification
I B B C B B B B
Emergency P A A A A A A A
Preparedness I A A A A A B B
Environmental P B B B B B B B
Protection I B B B B B B B
Radiation Protection P B B B B B B B
I B B A B B B B
P Secret
Site Security
I Secret
Safeguards P B B B B B B B
I B B B B B B B
50
External Performance Standards
Activity Performance
standard Target Performance
2005-06
Performance
2006-07
Performance
2007-2008
Compliance9
Verification: Upon completion of the verification activity, CNSC will:
Issue Type I Inspection Report10 Within 60 business
days 80% 50% 58% 69%
Issue Type II Inspection Report11 Within 40 business
days 80% 86% 90% 85%
Issue Desktop Review Report10 Within 60 business
days 90% 70% 79% 95%
Enforcement: upon an Order being made, CNSC will:
Confirm, amend, revoke or replace the
Order (see regulatory guide G-273,
Making, Reviewing and Receiving Orders
Under the Nuclear Safety and Control Act)
Within 10 business
days 100% 100% 100% 100%
Licensing9: For requests pertaining to an existing licence, the CNSC will:
Screen the request for completeness and
issue notification that the licensing request
is / is not complete12, 13
Within 20 business
days 90% 100% 97% 56%
Issue a licensing decision when a public
hearing is not required, assuming an EA
under the CEAA is not required
Within 80 business
days 80% 97% 98% 83%
Issue a licensing decision when a public
hearing is required, assuming an EA under
the CEAA is not required (see INFO-0715,
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission
Public Hearings on Licensing Matters)13
Within 160 business
days 90% 100% 83% 100%
Access to Information
Respond to requests under the Access to
Information Act and Privacy Act14
Within legislated
time periods as stated
in the acts
100% 94%
Access to
information – 82%
Privacy – 100%
Access to
information – 61%
Privacy – 100%
9 Compliance and licensing results are based upon available performance data.
10 Using CNSC’s risk-informed approach to regulation, initial priority was given to the completion of reports whose results were of greater
significance.
11 In power reactors, unless major issues arise, findings from field inspections and control room inspections will be reported on a quarterly basis,
within 40 business days of end of quarter.
12 Initial priority was given to screening of requests from licensees that are of higher risk.
13 The screening and hearing processes do not apply to licensing and certification activities that are related to nuclear substances, radiation
devices, Class II facilities, prescribed equipment, transport and packaging.
14 CNSC received 120 requests for access to information during 2007–08, an approximately 67increase from the 72 requests in 2006–07. Of the
2007–08 requests, more than half were received in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year and many were of significant length and complexity.
CNSC has added two full-time employees to its Access to Information and Privacy Program and implemented additional measures to ensure full
future compliance with legislated timelines in the Access to Information Act and the Privacy Act.
51
Activity Performance
standard Target Performance
2005-06
Performance
2006-07
Performance
2007-2008
External Communications
Place public hearings advertisements
Within deadlines
stipulated in the
regulations
100% 95% 100% 100%
Response time to public inquiries
Same-day
acknowledgement,
with response time
for completion of
request depending
upon complexity:
100% 100% 100% 100%
Low – same day 100% 100% 100% 100%
Medium – within 5
business days 100% 95% 95% 95%
High – within 10
business days 100% 80% 75% 80%
Commission Tribunal Decisions
Number of decisions in 2007–08 43
Average number of days to release decision 16
Decisions released within 30 days 41
Decisions released after 30 days 2
52
CNSC’s Regulatory Plan
Regulations Expected Results Measurement
Criteria
2007-2008 Results Achieved
Nuclear Substances
and Radiation Devices
Regulations-
Amendments
• Address issues noted by the
Parliamentary Standing Joint
Committee for the Scrutiny
of Regulations
• Correct regulatory
deficiencies that have come
to light since the regulations
came into force on May 31,
2000
• Adopt the latest exemption
values in IAEA Basic Safety
Standards
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
March 14, 2008. The regulations were
registered April 17, 2008 and were
published in Canada Gazette Part II
April 30, 2008.
Amendments completed and
regulatory deficiencies corrected and
issues addressed IAEA standards
adopted.
Class II Nuclear
Facilities and
Prescribed Equipment
Regulations -
Amendments
• Address issues that have
been noted by the
Parliamentary Standing Joint
Committee on Scrutiny of
Regulations
• Correct certain regulatory
deficiencies that have come
to light since the regulations
came into force on May 31,
2000.
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
March 14, 2008. The regulations were
registered April 17, 2008 and were
published in Canada Gazette Part II
April 30, 2008.
Amendments completed and
regulatory deficiencies corrected and
issues addressed.
General Nuclear Safety
and Control
Regulations and
Class I Nuclear
Facilities Regulations-
Amendments
• Consequential amendments
as a result of amendments to
Nuclear Substances and
Radiation Devices
Regulations and Class II
Nuclear Facilities and
Prescribed Equipment
Regulations
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
March 14, 2008. The regulations were
registered April 17, 2008 and were
published in Canada Gazette Part II
April 30, 2008.
Amendments completed.
General Nuclear Safety
and Control
Regulations - Class I
Nuclear Facilities
Regulations - Class II
Nuclear Facilities and
Prescribed Equipment
Regulations - Nuclear
Substances and
Radiation Devices
Regulations
Amendments
• Provide for the incorporation
of a number of international
standards and correct minor
deficiencies or
inconsistencies.
Completion of
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
March 26, 2008. The regulations were
registered April 17, 2008 and were
published in Canada Gazette Part II
April 30, 2008.
Amendments completed and
regulatory deficiencies corrected and
issues addressed.
Nuclear Safeguards
Regulations
(new regulations)
• Establish generic safeguards
regulations in lieu of existing
safeguards licence conditions
to facilitate compliance with
international safeguards
agreements
Regulations
completed.
No significant work done on this
project since June 2007 because of
staffing and job priority issues.
Timeline will have to be reassessed.
53
Regulations Expected Results Measurement
Criteria
2007-2008 Results Achieved
Nuclear Nonproliferation
Import
and Export Control
Regulations -
Amendments
• Ensure that the export and
import provisions and
licensing requirements are
compatible with
developments in
international agreements and
guidance
• Address issues raised by the
Parliamentary Standing Joint
Committee on regulations
• Clarify minor ambiguities
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
Technical drafting instructions were
prepared and reviewed with the
Department of Justice. CNSC staff
also made the proposed draft
amendments available for preconsultation
with interested
government agencies and
exporters/importers from August to
October 2007; comments received
informed modifications to the drafting
instructions.
Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission
Rules of Procedure and
Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission Bylaws-
Amendments
• Update Rules of Procedure
and By-laws to reflect best
practices in the area of
administrative tribunals.
Rules of Procedure
and By-laws updated.
Triage questionnaire was approved by
Treasury Board Secretariat in January
2008. CNSC has developed drafting
instructions for Justice Canada to
review and to begin drafting
regulations.
Regulations Amending
the Canadian Nuclear
Safety Commission
Cost Recovery Fees
Regulations
(Miscellaneous
Program)-
Amendments
• Clarify certain sections of the
regulations and to address
the concerns of the Standing
Joint Committee for the
Scrutiny of Regulations with
respect to these regulations
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
February 21, 2008. The regulations
were registered April 17, 2008 and
were published in Canada Gazette
Part II April 30, 2008.
Amendments completed - clarified
certain sections and issues addressed.
Regulations Amending
Certain Instruments
made under the
Nuclear Safety and
Control Act
(Miscellaneous
Program)-
Amendments
• To correct minor
inconsistencies between the
English and French versions
in the Regulations and Rules
listed hereunder: - General
Nuclear Safety and Control
Regulations - Radiation
Protection Regulations -
Class I Nuclear Facilities
Regulations -
Uranium Mines and Mills
Regulations -
Nuclear Non-proliferation
Import and Export Control
Regulations - Canadian
Nuclear Safety Commission
Rules of Procedure
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
The Canadian Nuclear Safety
Commission made the regulations on
June 21, 2007. They came into effect
September 18, 2007 and were
published in Canada Gazette Part II
October 3, 2007.
Amendments completed –
inconsistencies corrected.
Class II Nuclear
Facilities Regulations-
Amendments
• Give a regulatory basis to the
current practice of approving
Radiation Safety Officers at
Class II facilities
Completion of the
amendments to the
regulations.
Justice Canada and CNSC are
working on the wording for the
proposed amendments to the Class II
regulations in preparation for the
formal pre-consultation.
54