 
Fitness for Service 
Maintenance Programs for Nuclear 
Power Plants 
 
 
REGDOC-2.6.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
August 2017 
 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
Regulatory Document REGDOC-2.6.2 
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2017 
Catalogue number CC172-92/2017E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-07565-5 
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Programmes d’entretien des centrales nucléaires  
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website. To request a copy of the document in English or 
French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Facsimile: 613-995-5086 
Email: cnsc.information.ccsn@canada.ca 
Web site: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Twitter: @CNSC_CCSN 
 
Publishing history: 
December 2012 
RD/GD-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
July 2007 
S-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
 
 
i 
Preface 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants, sets out the requirements of the 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) with regard to maintenance programs for nuclear power 
plants (NPPs). An NPP maintenance program consists of policies, processes and procedures that provide 
direction for maintaining structures, systems and components (SSCs) of the plant. 
REGDOC-2.6.2 replaces regulatory standard RD/GD-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power 
Plants (published in 2012). It reaffirms the existing requirements found in RD/GD-210. 
Effective maintenance is essential for the safe operation of a nuclear power plant. The range of 
maintenance activities includes monitoring, surveillance, inspection, testing, assessment, calibration, 
service, overhaul, repair and replacement of parts. The scope of the maintenance program covers all 
structures, systems or components (SSCs) within the bounds of the nuclear power plant. The type and 
frequency of maintenance activity applied to each SSC are understood to be commensurate with the 
SSC’s importance to safety, design function and required performance. 
The majority of maintenance activities are traditionally allocated to the concept of preventive 
maintenance. These maintenance activities can be derived, for example, from design or reliability 
requirements, codes and standards, and operating experience and are performed on the basis of service 
time, actual condition or predicted condition. Where the performance or condition of an SSC does not 
allow it to function as per design, corrective action must be taken. 
The results of all maintenance activities are fed back through an optimization process that enables 
continuous improvement of the program. 
The requirements outlined in this regulatory document are consistent with international guidelines, 
including Safety Related Maintenance in the Framework of the Reliability Centered Maintenance 
Concept, TECDOC-658, and Maintenance, Surveillance and In-service Inspection in Nuclear Power 
Plants, Safety Standards Series, No. NS-G-2.6, both from the International Atomic Energy Agency 
(IAEA). 
Where referenced in a licence either directly or indirectly (such as through licensee-referenced 
documents), this document is part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity.  
The licensing basis sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or 
activity and thus establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program in respect of that regulated 
facility or activity.  
Where this document is part of the licensing basis, the word “shall” is used to express a requirement to 
be satisfied by the licensee or licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is 
advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of 
this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Relevant legislation and regulations ................................................................................... 1 
1.4 
National and international standards 
................................................................................... 2 
2. 
Background ........................................................................................................................3 
3. 
Maintenance Program .......................................................................................................4 
3.1 
Program basis 
...................................................................................................................... 4 
3.2 
Maintenance organization 
................................................................................................... 6 
3.2.1 
Policies, processes and procedures ........................................................................ 6 
3.2.2 
Organizational structure 
......................................................................................... 7 
3.2.3 
Training and qualification of workers.................................................................... 8 
3.2.4 
Contract workers 
.................................................................................................. 10 
3.2.5 
Maintenance facilities .......................................................................................... 11 
3.3 
Maintenance activities ...................................................................................................... 12 
3.3.1 
Preventive maintenance ....................................................................................... 12 
3.3.2 
Corrective maintenance ....................................................................................... 13 
3.3.3 
Aging management .............................................................................................. 14 
3.3.4 
Activity optimization ........................................................................................... 14 
3.4 
SSC monitoring 
................................................................................................................. 15 
3.4.1 
Condition monitoring 
........................................................................................... 16 
3.4.2 
Surveillance ......................................................................................................... 18 
3.4.3 
Testing ................................................................................................................. 18 
3.5 
Maintenance work 
............................................................................................................. 19 
3.5.1 
Work assessment.................................................................................................. 20 
3.5.2 
Work planning, scheduling and execution 
........................................................... 21 
3.5.3 
Outage activities .................................................................................................. 23 
3.5.4 
Maintenance procedures ...................................................................................... 24 
3.5.5 
Post-maintenance verification and testing ........................................................... 26 
3.6 
Spare parts and procurement 
............................................................................................. 27 
3.7 
Management assessment and program review 
.................................................................. 28 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
 
 
3.8 
Record keeping ................................................................................................................. 30 
Glossary ........................................................................................................................................32 
References 
.....................................................................................................................................36 
Additional Information ...............................................................................................................37 
 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
1 
 
Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
Purpose 
This regulatory document sets out the requirements of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
(CNSC) with regard to maintenance programs for nuclear power plants (NPPs). This document 
also provides information and guidance on how the requirements may be met. 
When incorporated into a licence or other legally enforceable instrument, this regulatory 
document becomes a legal requirement. 
1.2 
Scope 
An NPP maintenance program consists of policies, processes and procedures that provide 
direction for maintaining structures, systems or components (SSCs) of the plant. 
Effective maintenance is essential for the safe operation of a nuclear power plant. The range of 
maintenance activities includes monitoring, surveillance, inspection, testing, assessment, 
calibration, service, overhaul, repair and replacement of parts. The scope of the maintenance 
program covers all structures, systems or components (SSCs) within the bounds of the nuclear 
power plant. 
It is not the intent of this regulatory document to override requirements provided by other codes 
and standards but rather to provide the framework within which such codes and standards are 
applied to ensure that SSCs function as per design. 
In this document, “shall” is used to express a requirement, i.e., a provision that a licensee or 
licence applicant is obliged to satisfy in order to comply with the requirements of this regulatory 
document. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is advised. “May” is used to 
express an option or that which is permissible within the limits of this regulatory document. 
“Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Information on maintenance programs is submitted as part of the application for a construction 
licence or an operating licence. As such, throughout this document, “licensee” refers to both 
licensees and licence applicants. 
1.3 
Relevant legislation and regulations 
The following provisions of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA, the Act) and regulations 
made under the NSCA are relevant to this regulatory document: 
• 
subsection 24(4) of the NSCA states that “no licence may be issued, renewed, amended or 
replaced unless, in the opinion of the Commission, the applicant 
(a) is qualified to carry on the activity that the licence will authorize the licensee to carry on 
(b) will, in carrying on that activity, make adequate provision for the protection of the 
environment, the health and safety of persons and the maintenance of national security and 
measures required to implement international obligations to which Canada has agreed” 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
2 
 
• 
subsection 24(5) of the NSCA states that “a licence may contain any term or condition that 
the Commission considers necessary for the purposes of the Act” 
• 
subsection 12(1) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that “every 
licensee shall  
(a) ensure the presence of a sufficient number of qualified workers to carry on the licensed 
activity safely and in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act and the 
licence 
(b) train the workers to carry on the licensed activity in accordance with the Act, the 
regulations made under the Act and the licence 
(c) take all reasonable precautions to protect the environment and the health and safety of 
persons and to maintain the security of nuclear facilities and of nuclear substances 
(d) provide the devices required by the Act, the regulations made under the Act and the 
licence and maintain them within the manufacturer’s specifications 
(e) require that every person at the site of the licensed activity use equipment, devices, 
clothing and procedures in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act and 
the licence” 
• 
paragraphs 6(d), (m), and (n) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations state that “an 
application for a licence to operate a Class I nuclear facility shall contain […] 
(d) the proposed measures, policies, methods and procedures for operating and maintaining 
the nuclear facility […] 
(m) the proposed responsibilities of and qualification requirements and training program for 
workers, including the procedures for the requalification of workers 
(n) the results that have been achieved in implementing the program for recruiting, training 
and qualifying workers in respect of the operation and maintenance of the nuclear facility” 
• 
subsection 14(2) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that “every licensee who 
operates a Class I facility shall keep a record of 
(a) operating and maintenance procedures […] 
(c) the results of the inspection and maintenance programs referred to in the licence” 
• 
subsection 14(4) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that “every person who 
is required by [section 14(2) of those regulations] to keep a record of [the operating and 
maintenance procedures] and [the results of the inspection and maintenance programs] shall 
retain the record for 10 years after the expiry date of the licence to abandon issued in respect 
of the Class I facility” 
1.4 
National and international standards 
This regulatory document is consistent with modern national and international guides and 
standards for maintenance programs for NPPs. In particular, this regulatory document is based in 
part on the following national and international publications: 
• 
CNSC, REGDOC-2.6.1, Reliability Programs for Nuclear Power Plants, 2017[1] 
• 
CNSC, REGDOC-2.5.2, Design of Reactor Facilities: Nuclear Power Plants, 2014 
• 
CNSC, RD/GD-369, Licence Application Guide: Licence to Construct a Nuclear Power 
Plant, 2011 
• 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), TECDOC-658, Safety Related Maintenance in 
the Framework of the Reliability Centered Maintenance Concept, Vienna, 1992 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
3 
 
• 
IAEA Safety Standards Series, No. NS-G-2.6, Maintenance, Surveillance and In-service 
Inspection in Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 2002 
• 
CAN/CSA N286-12, Management system requirements for nuclear facilities, 2012 
2. 
Background 
Effective maintenance is essential for the safe operation of a nuclear power plant. The facility 
must be monitored, inspected, tested, assessed and maintained to ensure that SSCs function as per 
design. Various maintenance concepts can be used to form a maintenance strategy. 
Figure 1 illustrates an example of the relationship of maintenance concepts and associated 
maintenance activities that provide the basis of a good maintenance strategy. This strategy would 
be supported by the maintenance program. 
The majority of maintenance activities are traditionally allocated to the concept of preventive 
maintenance. These maintenance activities can be derived, for example, from the safety analysis 
assumptions, design or reliability requirements, codes and standards, and operating experience 
and are performed on the basis of service time, actual condition or predicted condition. Where the 
performance or condition of an SSC does not allow it to function as per design, corrective action 
must be taken. 
The results of all maintenance activities are fed back through an optimization process which 
enables the continuous improvement of the program. 
 
Figure 1: Relationship of maintenance concepts and activities 
Maintenance strategy 
Preventive maintenance 
Corrective maintenance 
Periodic 
Predictive 
Planned 
 
Time-based 
servicing, parts 
replacement or 
overhaul. Includes 
periodic inspection 
and lifetime 
replacement 
 
 
Surveillance, 
monitoring, 
testing, 
in-service 
inspection 
 
Condition-based 
servicing, parts 
replacement, 
overhaul, 
refurbishment, 
modification 
Run-to-failure 
Unplanned failure 
 
 
Temporary repair, 
repair, overhaul, 
refurbishment, 
replacement or 
modification 
 
 
 
Inspection and 
failure diagnosis 
Optimization process for program and activities 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
4 
 
3. 
Maintenance Program 
To ensure that the overall maintenance strategy is effective, the maintenance program must 
include mutually supporting elements. These elements cover program basis, maintenance 
organization, maintenance activities, system health monitoring, maintenance work, spare parts 
and procurement, management assessment and program review, and record keeping. 
Each program element requires sufficient resources governed by the licensee’s approved policies, 
processes and procedures. These elements, when integrated, will form a comprehensive 
maintenance program. For each program element, a number of criteria have been established. The 
elements and associated criteria are described in sections 3.1 to 3.8. 
3.1 
Program basis 
The licensee shall define and follow a systematic approach to identify which maintenance 
activities are to be performed, on which SSCs, and at what intervals. The type and frequency of 
maintenance activity applied to each SSC is understood to be commensurate with the SSC’s 
importance to safety, design function and required performance. 
The identification, selection and frequency of maintenance activities shall take the following into 
account: 
1. the relative SSC importance of the risks to national security, the health and safety of persons 
and the environment 
2. the technical basis for demonstrating that safety goals and performance criteria are met as 
described in the licence and supporting documentation 
3. the requirements of all applicable industry codes and standards 
4. the radiation protection principle As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) 
5. design requirements and operating conditions 
6. vendor recommendations 
7. operating experience 
8. aging management requirements 
9. reliability program requirements [1] 
The purpose of the maintenance program is to ensure that SSCs can function as per design, and it 
therefore follows that a maintenance strategy shall be based on the approved plant design and 
safety analysis. Strategy development, therefore, requires a close liaison between the operating 
and design organizations to ensure that the strategy is based on a clear understanding of design 
philosophy and plant details. 
The results of maintenance activities shall be used to provide feedback for program changes or 
design modifications. Program changes and design modifications shall be controlled in 
accordance with the licensee’s approved procedures and the maintenance program updated 
accordingly. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
5 
 
Guidance 
SSC identification and activity selection 
To ensure that a systematic approach is taken to identify which maintenance activities are to be 
performed, on which SSCs, and at what intervals, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
have been taken into account: 
1. SSCs are systematically identified, resulting in a master equipment list 
2. the master equipment list is kept current, as equipment gets replaced, or new equipment is 
added 
3. maintenance activities and their frequency are identified based on: 
• 
regulatory requirements and applicable codes and standards 
• 
design and operating conditions 
• 
vendor’s recommendations 
• 
operating experience 
• 
operating performance 
4. maintenance activities are prioritized according to the importance of the SSC 
5. the safety classification of the SSCs 
6. a process is in place for assessing the role that the SSC plays in meeting the safety goals and 
performance criteria as described in the licence, safety analysis, severe accident management 
guidelines and supporting documentation 
7. radiation protection principles, including ALARA, operating experience and lessons learned 
from past maintenance activities are considered in the planning and execution of maintenance 
activities 
8. maintenance activities are periodically reviewed for adequacy, optimization and improvement 
9. issues related to the aging of the SSCs are identified and managed 
10. reliability targets of SSCs important to safety [1] 
Maintenance strategy 
To demonstrate that the maintenance strategy has its basis in the approved plant design and safety 
analysis, and that all SSCs function as per design, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place to ensure that relevant design information is identified and used in 
developing the maintenance program 
2. the design authority is clearly defined to maintenance personnel and has responsibility for the 
design philosophy, plant safety and design basis, and safety margins 
3. documents regarding plant design details and operational configuration status are accurate 
and accessible to maintenance personnel 
4. communication interfaces are defined among groups responsible for design, engineering, 
operations and maintenance 
5. operational requirements and restrictions imposed by the plant design are documented in 
specifications and incorporated into maintenance procedures or work instructions 
6. engineering personnel use technical information, such as design analyses, operating 
experience information, severe accident management guidelines and safety analyses, to 
provide recommendations on maintenance activities 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
6 
 
Feedback from maintenance activities 
When using the results of maintenance activities to provide feedback for program changes or 
design modifications, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken 
into account: 
1. a process is in place to capture lessons learned and operating experience 
2. the feedback data collected are managed such that it can be used when doing future 
maintenance of a similar type, analyzed for failure mechanisms, activity optimization or 
when considering program changes or design modifications 
3. a process is in place for capturing program/procedure changes, design modifications, 
operating condition changes, equipment performance changes, and existence of degradation. 
This process includes the verification of the maintenance activities that could be affected by 
the change, and updating them 
4. a process is in place for capturing radiological hazards encountered during the maintenance 
activity 
5. a process is in place for feeding back the results of maintenance activities to engineering 
6. changes to the maintenance program are controlled 
3.2 
Maintenance organization 
The licensee shall establish a maintenance organization to effectively implement the maintenance 
program. 
3.2.1 
Policies, processes and procedures 
The licensee shall set out policies, processes and procedures that govern how the maintenance 
program is to be implemented. 
The licensee shall ensure that the maintenance policies, processes and procedures are controlled, 
adhered to, and revised as necessary to reflect the current plant configuration. 
The licensee shall have a process for ensuring that program documents are up-to-date. 
Guidance 
Program governance 
When setting out policies, processes and procedures that govern how the maintenance program is 
to be implemented, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into 
account: 
1. the licensee has a clear high-level maintenance policy statement 
2. strategic direction for maintaining and improving equipment performance is established 
3. priorities are clearly communicated to maintenance personnel 
4. maintenance program and its objectives have been documented 
5. maintenance management direction, such as goals, initiatives, expectations and priorities, are 
provided to assist personnel in making decisions and taking actions that contribute to safe and 
reliable plant operation 
6. the licensee has procedures that govern how the maintenance program is implemented in 
respect of the objectives and changing priorities 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
7 
 
Control and adherence 
To ensure that the maintenance policies, processes and procedures are controlled, adhered to, and 
revised as necessary to reflect the current plant configuration, licensees should demonstrate that 
the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. maintenance policies, processes and procedures: 
• 
are approved for use 
• 
are subject to revision control 
• 
reflect the current plant configuration 
2. plant modifications trigger maintenance procedure review and revisions, if necessary 
3. administrative controls are implemented for the conduct of maintenance activities that affect 
plant operations 
Program status 
When developing the process to ensure that program documents are up-to-date, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. maintenance policies, processes and procedures reflect the current plant configuration 
2. obsolete documents are removed from service 
3. a process is in place to ensure workers are using the latest revision of the documents 
4. changes to plant equipment, procedures and processes are planned and implemented 
systematically to improve safe and reliable plant operation 
3.2.2 
Organizational structure 
Senior plant management shall be responsible for establishing and implementing the maintenance 
program. They shall establish clear lines of authority and define the responsibilities of the various 
managerial and supervisory positions. 
Functions necessary to meet program element requirements may not traditionally be performed 
by groups within the maintenance department. In such cases, the interfaces between such groups 
shall be identified. 
Interfaces between trades groups and other work groups such as operations or radiation protection 
who interact with the maintenance organization shall be described. 
Engineering and technical support, with competence in all disciplines important for safety, shall 
be available throughout the lifetime of the plant. 
Guidance 
Maintenance structure 
When establishing and implementing the structure of the maintenance program, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. senior plant management demonstrates an understanding of its responsibility for establishing 
and implementing the maintenance program 
2. an organizational structure is established with clear lines of authority and defined 
responsibilities 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
8 
 
3. job descriptions for maintenance personnel are documented and match daily activities 
Interfacing statements 
When establishing interfacing statements, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
1. interfaces with other groups (e.g., engineering, operation, radiation protection) are defined 
where maintenance activities involve supporting work groups 
2. maintenance personnel are aware of each group’s areas of responsibility 
Interfaces with trades groups 
When establishing interfaces between trades groups and other work groups who interact with the 
maintenance organization, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been 
taken into account: 
1. for multi-disciplinary jobs, a lead person is identified 
2. roles and responsibilities are defined for each work group 
3. work packages include designation of work group responsibilities 
4. the interfaces of different disciplines or work groups are clearly defined 
Engineering and technical support 
When managing engineering and technical support, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. engineering and technical support is available to maintenance personnel 
2. guidance is available to maintenance personnel for determining if engineering and technical 
support is needed 
3. a process is in place that provides direction to maintenance personnel when engineering and 
technical support is needed 
4. a process is in place to communicate technical information and recommendations to 
maintenance staff 
3.2.3 
Training and qualification of workers 
The maintenance program shall be supported by sufficient numbers of trained and qualified 
personnel. The adequacy of these resources shall be determined based on maintenance program 
objectives. 
The details and results of the training program and personnel qualifications shall be documented. 
Personnel training and qualifications shall be kept up-to-date. 
All maintenance personnel shall be given facility specific training in plant systems, work control, 
radiation protection, safety rules, access control, security and emergency procedures 
commensurate with their responsibilities. 
Where applicable to their duties, maintenance personnel shall be trained and qualified with 
respect to other plant programs such as configuration management and quality assurance. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
9 
 
Prior to performing tasks with higher risk to plant and personnel safety, maintenance personnel 
shall receive a pre-job briefing commensurate with the activity or additional training up to a full-
scale mock-up. 
Guidance 
Sufficient numbers of qualified personnel 
When determining the sufficient numbers of trained and qualified personnel to support the 
maintenance program, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken 
into account: 
1. the licensee has a systematic process for determining the level of maintenance personnel 
resources that are required 
2. the process includes an evaluation of the organization’s ability to meet maintenance program 
objectives 
3. the maintenance staffing levels (including contractors) are consistent with the resource level 
requirements, and succession planning is in place 
4. maintenance personnel training and qualification requirements are specified 
5. maintenance line management is accountable for the training, qualification, and performance 
of maintenance personnel 
6. maintenance work is only performed by qualified personnel 
7. facilities, equipment, and tools are provided and maintained to effectively support training 
activities 
Training and qualifications 
When documenting training and qualifications for personnel (including contractors), licensees 
should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. maintenance personnel training and qualification requirements are identified and documented 
2. the details and results of the training program and personnel qualifications are documented 
and available for verification 
3. maintenance personnel qualifications meet established criteria for their assigned positions 
4. personnel training and qualifications are kept up-to-date 
5. personnel training and qualification records are retained 
6. continuing training is implemented to maintain and enhance knowledge and skills and to 
address areas such as plant equipment and procedure changes 
Facility-specific training 
For facility-specific training of maintenance personnel, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. personnel exhibit competence in performing assigned tasks that consistently result in quality 
workmanship 
2. personnel are trained on changes prior to maintaining modified equipment, as required 
3. affected procedures, operational drawings, and work documents are available for training on 
modified equipment 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
10 
 
Training on other plant programs and tasks with high risk 
For training of maintenance personnel on other plant programs and tasks with high risk, licensees 
should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place to ensure that all maintenance personnel are given facility-specific 
training in plant systems, work control, radiation protection, safety rules, access control, 
security and emergency procedures as commensurate with their responsibilities 
2. where applicable to their duties, maintenance personnel are trained and qualified with respect 
to other plant programs such as configuration management and quality assurance 
3. provision is made for permanent maintenance personnel to be involved with infrequent but 
major maintenance activities to obtain the experience and skills necessary to support future 
plant operations 
4. facilities, equipment and tools are provided and maintained to effectively support training 
activities 
5. for tasks with high risk, additional training is identified and implemented effectively prior to 
execution of the job 
6. environmental awareness should be included in the facility-specific training 
3.2.4 
Contract workers 
The licensee shall ensure that contractors comply with work procedures and standards that are 
higher than or equal to those applicable to plant staff, particularly in the areas of professional 
competence, adherence to procedures and evaluation of performance. Suitable steps shall be taken 
to ensure that contract workers conform to equivalent technical standards of the operating 
organization. 
The licensee shall be responsible for assuring the quality of contractor work. Processes shall be in 
place to control and verify activities performed by contract workers. 
Guidance 
Contractor work practices 
For contractor work, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into 
account: 
1. direction and control are maintained over vendor and contractor maintenance activities 
2. suitable steps are taken to ensure that contract workers conform to equivalent technical 
standards of the operating organization 
3. tasks, responsibilities, authorities, expectations for performance and interfaces are clearly 
defined and are understood by contractors 
Contractor quality assurance 
For assuring the quality of contractor work, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. processes are in place to control and verify activities performed by contract workers 
2. contractors working in the maintenance area use the same (or equivalent) station-approved 
policies, procedures and controls and the same quality standards as station maintenance 
personnel 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
11 
 
3. contractors possess experience, knowledge and skills equivalent to those of station 
maintenance personnel for their assigned functions and are task-qualified prior to independent 
work assignment 
4. a process is in place for assuring the quality of contractor work 
5. the interface between the contractor’s staff and the licensee’s staff is defined 
6. a process is in place that provides direction to the contractor’s staff when technical support is 
required 
3.2.5 
Maintenance facilities 
Maintenance facilities and work areas shall be provided including housing for the shipping, 
receiving, handling and storing of spare parts, tools and equipment. Where necessary, the 
facilities shall be access controlled and operated in a manner that preserves the correct 
environmental conditions and guards against hazards such as fire and chemical spills. 
Guidance 
When preparing maintenance facilities and work areas, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. maintenance facility size and arrangement promote safe and effective work and training 
activities 
2. appropriate facilities are provided for work on radioactive components and hazardous 
materials 
3. work area lighting and other environmental conditions promote safe and effective working 
conditions 
4. work areas are maintained in a clean and orderly condition 
5. tools, equipment, and consumable supplies are available to support work, and appropriate 
equipment is available for loading, lifting and transporting equipment 
6. rigging equipment and scaffolding are identified, tested and properly stored 
7. facilities, equipment and tools are maintained in good repair 
8. equipment is accessible for maintenance activities; fixed local area hoists and work platforms 
are provided, as needed, to facilitate maintenance access to plant equipment 
9. communications equipment is provided and is available to support maintenance activities 
10. all tools, jigs, fixtures, equipment and transient materials have suitable storage provided 
11. where appropriate, the facilities are access-controlled and operated in a manner that preserves 
the correct environmental conditions and guards against hazards such as fire and chemical 
spills 
12. suitable storage is provided for tools, supplies and equipment, and special tools are identified 
and stored to permit ready retrieval 
13. a process is in place to deal with contaminated tools 
14. maintenance facilities and work areas include appropriate monitoring equipment and personal 
protective equipment (PPE) 
15. facilities where measuring and test equipment is located and calibrated have a controlled 
environment condition to facilitate the precise repair and calibration of the equipment 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
12 
 
3.3 
Maintenance activities 
The licensee shall include activities aimed at avoiding, detecting and repairing failures of SSCs. 
Guidance 
As illustrated in figure 1, maintenance activities aimed at avoiding and detecting incipient failures 
are considered preventive maintenance activities. Activities aimed at repairing failed SSCs are 
considered corrective maintenance activities. These activities can be combined at various levels 
to form a maintenance strategy to meet the program objectives. 
3.3.1 
Preventive maintenance 
A preventive maintenance program that follows accepted industry standards and practices shall be 
established. Preventive maintenance activities are categorized as periodic (time-based), planned 
or predictive. Results from periodic or predictive activities may result in additional planned 
activities. 
Time-based preventive maintenance shall not typically be scheduled just prior to performance or 
functional testing that is conducted to determine as-found condition, as this may mask equipment 
degradation and change the as-found condition. 
Guidance 
Preventive maintenance activities 
For preventive maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
1. preventive maintenance activities have a technical basis to support equipment performance 
analysis and changes to the activities 
2. preventive activities include accepted industry standards such as Canadian Standards 
Association (CSA) and ASME requirements for inspections, assessments, calibrations, and 
function and performance testing 
3. processes and procedures for preventive maintenance activities are clearly documented 
4. a process is in place to control and document any change in scope of the maintenance 
activities 
5. failure mode analyses are used to help determine preventive activities 
6. preventive maintenance is performed on equipment, including spare parts where appropriate, 
to maintain the equipment performance 
7. the frequency and type of preventive maintenance have a technical basis and are adjusted 
based on operating experience, results of reliability analyses, changes in operating conditions 
and environment, and vendor recommendations 
8. results from periodic or predictive activities are analyzed for additional planned activities 
9. instruments and controls are calibrated entirely and within established criteria 
10. model templates are used for different types of equipment 
11. preventive maintenance activities are coordinated within blocks of equipment 
12. equipment remains protected as necessary against the effects of environmental conditions, 
such as humidity, temperature, irradiation, dust and seismic shock 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
13 
 
Scheduling preventive maintenance activities 
When scheduling preventive maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place for cross-checking preventive maintenance activities with testing 
activities to look for conflicts 
2. as-found conditions are recorded 
3. certain maintenance activities could be done before the functional testing, but only for the 
purpose of personnel protection or equipment preservation; this arrangement should follow a 
controlled process to evaluate the possibility and its potential impact of changing as-found 
conditions 
3.3.2 
Corrective maintenance 
The licensee shall have processes in place for initiating corrective maintenance and performing 
failure diagnosis of equipment. The processes shall include evaluating the impact of failed 
equipment and prioritizing the repair work with respect to ongoing maintenance activities. 
The licensee shall have a process in place for controlling and performing temporary repairs 
including proper approvals, equivalency assessments and time period until the permanent repair 
can be implemented or an approved modification made. 
Guidance 
Failure response 
For corrective maintenance activities, while keeping in mind that the processes include evaluating 
the impact of failed equipment and prioritizing the repair work with respect to ongoing 
maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken 
into account: 
1. conditions adverse to safety have been identified, and corrective actions for plant deficiencies 
have been pursued with incorporation of human performance tools 
2. lessons learned are incorporated into surveillance and engineering procedures 
3. maintenance is performed in a timely manner, considering the safety significance of the SSC 
4. the causes of equipment problems are determined, and corrective actions are implemented 
and verified for effectiveness 
5. in-depth analysis of equipment failure is commensurate with the importance to plant safety 
and reliable performance and the likelihood for recurrence 
6. repetitive equipment failures are promptly identified and pursued to resolution, consistent 
with the safety significance of the equipment; preventive maintenance intervals are adjusted 
as appropriate; other susceptible components, which are identical to the ones found with 
repetitive anomalies, are assessed and corrected as necessary to preclude repetition 
7. engineering and technical support is available to maintenance staff to assist in diagnosing the 
cause of the equipment failure 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
14 
 
Temporary repairs 
When controlling and performing temporary repairs, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. the licensee employs a process for controlling and performing temporary repairs, including 
proper approvals, equivalency assessments and definition of the time period until the 
permanent repair can be implemented or an approved modification made 
2. temporary repairs are evaluated, controlled and tracked; the use of temporary repairs is 
minimized, and permanent repairs are made at the earliest reasonable opportunity 
3. procedures are implemented to control the placement, removal and periodic review of 
temporary modifications for equipment, such as electrical jumpers, lifted leads, mechanical 
jumpers, hoses, pipe blanks and spool pieces 
4. the limit of duration of a temporary repair for an existing system or component is specified 
and minimized, and a management action is generated to track removal of a temporary repair 
3.3.3 
Aging management 
The licensee shall have a process to detect, assess, and manage deterioration of SSCs as a result 
of aging effects such as irradiation, corrosion, erosion, fatigue, and other material degradation. 
The type and frequency of maintenance activities shall be modified to accommodate such effects. 
For more information on aging management programs (AMPs), refer to REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging 
Management [2]. 
3.3.4 
Activity optimization 
A process shall be in place to optimize the maintenance activities based on results from items 
such as (but not limited to) the following: 
1. failures in operation 
2. the as-found condition 
3. failures discovered during maintenance activities 
4. frequency of faults and related information 
5. maintainability improvements 
6. operating experience in other plants 
Guidance 
When optimizing maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place to optimize future maintenance activities 
2. experience from plant operation and maintenance is used to improve equipment performance 
and overall plant safety and reliability 
3. industry advancements in maintenance are used to improve overall performance of nuclear 
power plants 
4. industry operating and maintenance experience is used to improve equipment performance 
and overall plant safety and reliability 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
15 
 
3.4 
SSC monitoring 
The licensee shall establish baseline criteria against which the function and performance of SSCs 
can be measured. These criteria shall include reliability, availability, function and performance 
requirements and assumptions used in the plant design and safety analysis. The degree of SSC 
monitoring shall be commensurate with the safety significance of the SSC. 
The licensee shall include processes and procedures for evaluating whether or not SSCs continue 
to perform within the baseline criteria and for initiating corrective actions. These processes and 
procedures shall include condition monitoring, surveillance and testing. 
Guidance 
Baseline criteria 
When establishing baseline criteria for measuring the function and performance of SSCs (such as 
flow, pressure, temperature, amperage, etc.), licensees should demonstrate that the following 
factors have been taken into account: 
1. the data required for proper monitoring is defined 
2. acceptance criteria with appropriate margins are established 
3. reliability targets of SSCs important to safety are established [1] 
4. baseline criteria are established against which the function and performance of SSCs can be 
measured; these criteria include reliability, availability, function and performance and 
assumptions used in the plant safety design, reliability analysis and/or probabilistic safety 
assessment (PSA) 
5. plans are implemented for collecting data during commissioning, including start-up testing 
and initial power operation for use in defining baselines, verifying design parameters and 
validating models 
Evaluation processes and procedures 
As part of the processes and procedures for evaluating whether or not SSCs continue to perform 
within the baseline criteria and for initiating corrective actions, licensees should demonstrate that 
the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. SSC performance goals are established and the basis for monitoring documented 
2. responsibility for monitoring SSC parameters is established 
3. both direct and indirect monitoring of process parameters to identify and evaluate SSC 
degradation is performed 
4. the staff responsible for monitoring has an understanding of the SSC degradation mechanisms 
and can relate those mechanisms to monitoring parameters 
5. data collected for SSC monitoring is analyzed and compared with the acceptance criteria 
6. a process for reviewing the SSC monitoring program is in place to assess its effectiveness 
7. program level indicator conditions are trended as an indicator of plant performance 
8. equipment performance monitoring is used to detect problems and degrading performance 
9. equipment performance and system performance are monitored and evaluated by examining 
and trending the results of condition-monitoring activities, reviewing equipment failure 
history, analyzing availability/reliability information and performing system walk-downs; 
follow-up actions, based on identified problems, trends and root cause determinations, are 
timely and effective 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
16 
 
10. the extent and frequency of monitoring may vary but should reflect the ability for early 
detection and correction of negative trends 
3.4.1 
Condition monitoring 
The licensee shall have processes and procedures for carrying out condition monitoring. These 
consist of such things as periodic and in-service inspections, measurements or trending of SSC 
performance or physical characteristics to indicate current condition and future potential for 
failure. This monitoring is usually conducted on a non-intrusive basis and includes the use of 
specialized equipment. Vibration analysis, tribology and thermography are all examples of 
condition monitoring techniques. 
SSCs performing standby functions shall have condition monitoring requirements that indicate 
operational readiness. 
A process shall be in place to ensure that equipment qualification is maintained. Note that 
equipment qualification includes both environmental qualification and seismic qualification. 
A process shall be in place to ensure that all instrumentation remains within the calibration 
tolerances as required for it to perform as per design. 
Guidance 
Monitoring process and method 
When establishing SSC condition monitoring requirements, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. appropriate condition monitoring activities are assigned 
2. the extent and frequency of the monitoring activities are defined and may be adjusted based 
on operational experience, but should reflect the ability for early detection and correction of 
negative trends 
3. standby SSCs have been identified and have condition monitoring requirements that indicate 
operational readiness 
4. the monitoring equipment is properly maintained 
5. collection and analysis of performance data and predictive monitoring information (such as 
thermal, hydraulic, chemical, electrical, acoustical, vibration and mechanical parameters) are 
used 
6. input data is identified and includes such things as the results of periodic and in-service 
inspections, measurements or trending of SSC performance, or physical characteristics to 
indicate current condition and future potential for failure 
7. monitoring is conducted on a non-intrusive basis and includes the use of specialized 
equipment (vibration analysis, tribology, non-destructive examination and thermography are 
all examples of condition monitoring techniques) 
8. reviews and analyses of performance data are conducted to predict equipment operability and 
availability 
9. corrective maintenance/equipment failures are analyzed to determine if monitoring needs to 
be adjusted 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
17 
 
Equipment qualification 
As part of the process to ensure that equipment qualification (which includes environmental 
qualification and seismic qualification) is maintained, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. for environmental qualification: 
• 
environmental qualification equipment list is identified 
• 
maintenance activities do not invalidate the environmental qualification status of the 
equipment 
• 
preventive maintenance activities with appropriate intervals are established to maintain 
the equipment's qualified life 
• 
maintenance documentation capturing the environmental qualification requirements is 
controlled 
• 
maintenance on the qualified equipment is documented and the documentation is readily 
accessible 
• 
failure of qualified equipment is reviewed to assess its impact on the qualification status 
of the equipment 
2. for seismic qualification: 
• 
seismically qualified equipment list is identified 
• 
maintenance activities do not invalidate the seismic qualification of the equipment and 
the functional requirements of a seismic category B equipment 
• 
replaced equipment should be procured to maintain seismic design basis or upgrade it if 
seismic hazard was increased 
• 
documentation regarding equipment seismic qualification design basis is readily available 
and records are kept 
• 
supports of seismically qualified equipment should be maintained within the design basis 
• 
maintenance activities do not lead to excessive SSC vibrations arising from fluid flow or 
from the functioning of rotating equipment 
• 
maintenance activities do not allow the seismic qualification of equipment to be 
challenged by interaction from adjacent SSCs during a seismic event 
• 
maintenance activities should compensate for degradation of equipment due to aging 
Instrumentation calibration 
As part of the process to ensure that instrumentation calibration is maintained, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. equipment requiring calibration is defined 
2. a process is in place to ensure that instrumentation remains within specified limits for it to 
perform as designed 
3. measuring and test equipment is calibrated and controlled to provide accuracy and 
traceability 
4. test equipment that is out of tolerance or overdue for calibration is removed from service, and 
the effect is evaluated to determine whether corrective action needs to be taken 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
18 
 
3.4.2 
Surveillance 
The licensee shall have processes and procedures for carrying out SSC surveillance. Results shall 
be documented. 
Guidance 
Examples of surveillance are process system configuration checks, system walkdowns, trending, 
sampling, operator rounds and routine readings. 
As part of the processes and procedures for carrying out SSC surveillance, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. parameter expectations should be provided to allow verification of correct operational states 
and to detect any abnormal conditions 
2. surveillance procedures use specific acceptance criteria 
3. appropriate frequencies for routine inspections and walk-downs are established and adhered 
to 
4. surveillance includes SSC configuration checks, system walk-downs, trending, sampling, 
operator rounds and routine readings 
5. procedures are in place for capturing deficiencies and reporting them to maintenance 
personnel 
6. adequate means are available to verify that proper conditions are established for each mode of 
plant operation and for mode changes 
3.4.3 
Testing 
The licensee shall have processes and procedures for performance and function testing to verify 
that SSCs are in good working order and are in a state of readiness to perform their functions. The 
licensee shall prepare test plans and such plans shall include the test frequency and acceptance 
criteria. 
Instrumentation and test equipment used in performing the test program shall have the range and 
accuracy required to demonstrate that acceptance criteria have been met. All such test equipment 
shall be properly calibrated in accordance with a recognized national standard. 
Where appropriate, the test program results shall be provided to the reliability program [1]. 
Guidance 
Testing processes and procedures 
As part of the processes and procedures for performance and function testing, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. testing processes and procedures are readily accessible and subject to document control 
2. the licensee has defined the test frequency and acceptance criteria 
3. testing is done under as-found conditions that simulate, as nearly as practical, actual expected 
operating conditions 
4. procedures are in place for reporting test results to maintenance personnel 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
19 
 
The testing program should include a description of scope and responsibilities, scheduling 
mechanisms, test procedures, and methods for program updates. 
Test equipment 
For instrumentation and test equipment, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
1. control procedures are in place for test equipment 
2. the appropriate test equipment and instruments, and their necessary range and accuracy, are 
identified in the test procedure 
3. a process is in place for confirming test equipment is calibrated in accordance with a 
recognized national standard 
Test results 
For test program results, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken 
into account: 
1. test results are analyzed and documented, taking into account available history and trending 
2. test results are provided to the reliability program [1] 
3. deficiencies are identified and appropriately dispositioned 
3.5 
Maintenance work 
The licensee shall have processes and procedures for initiating, managing, assessing, prioritizing, 
planning and scheduling maintenance work. The resulting maintenance activity schedules shall be 
reviewed routinely and revised to account for changing conditions, operating experiences, and 
modifications. 
The licensee shall undertake and accomplish maintenance activities in a manner that is 
commensurate with the safety significance of the SSC and with effective allocation of resources. 
Unit and equipment identification shall be clear in work procedures and in the field to ensure that 
the proper equipment is isolated, maintained, and returned to service. Appropriate personal 
protection procedures shall be implemented before carrying out maintenance activities. 
A process for foreign material exclusion (FME) shall be in place as appropriate for all 
maintenance work. This is particularly important when opening up closed systems such as 
process piping and mechanical equipment. 
Guidance 
Work management process 
For the work management process, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account: 
1. administrative controls are implemented for maintenance activities that affect safe and 
reliable plant operations; examples of activities that are controlled include job turnovers, use 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
20 
 
of procedures, use of special tools and lifting equipment, and use and traceability of 
measuring and test equipment 
2. the licensee has processes and procedures for initiating, managing, assessing, prioritizing, 
planning and scheduling maintenance work 
3. regular review meetings are specified (with frequency) 
4. lessons learned from previous planning and scheduling results are incorporated 
5. documents affected by plant modifications such as drawings, procedures, and equipment 
indexes commonly used for maintenance are current and up-to-date 
6. procedures for FME are implemented 
Prioritization of maintenance activities 
To prioritize the maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
1. the licensee undertakes and accomplishes maintenance activities in a manner that is 
commensurate with the safety significance of the SSC and with effective allocation of 
resources 
2. equipment problems receive appropriate attention and timely resolution, based on priorities 
established through the work management process 
3. technical support is available to resolve equipment priority conflicts 
4. the licensee has a prioritization criteria and methodology, which are applied to work 
management; these should take into account the following licensing basis requirements: 
• 
safety analysis 
• 
regulatory requirements 
• 
ALARA 
• 
codes and standards 
5. leaks and fire protection are considered based on the safety significance of the SSC 
Personnel safety 
To protect the safety of personnel, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account: 
1. maintenance work is properly controlled, and is documented 
2. operations personnel control activities that affect the status of installed systems and 
equipment 
3. appropriate personal protection procedures are implemented before carrying out maintenance 
activities 
4. there is a procedure for properly identifying SSCs 
5. equipment in the field is readily identified 
3.5.1 
Work assessment 
The licensee shall implement a process for assessing maintenance activities. In addition to job 
tasks, the process shall assess the impact of maintenance activities on safety including such things 
as regulatory requirements, safe operating envelope (SOE), and potential industrial and 
radiological hazards to site personnel, the public and the environment. 
The assessment shall also take into account the cumulative effect of all plant equipment that is out 
of service on performance of safety functions. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
21 
 
Guidance 
Assessment of maintenance activities 
As part of the process for assessing maintenance activities, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. assessment work is done by qualified individuals 
2. the assessment includes a review of requirements for tradespersons, bills of materials, and 
tools 
3. the assessment includes the requirements for special qualifications 
4. in addition to job tasks, the process assesses the impact of maintenance activities on safety 
5. the process assesses the impact of maintenance activities on regulatory requirements and 
approvals 
6. the assessment includes the impact on the SOE 
7. potential industrial and radiological hazards to site personnel are considered 
8. supporting tasks such as accessibility provisions, insulation removal, and scaffolding are 
identified 
9. the assessment includes review of past maintenance activity results 
10. the need for special procedures or work instructions is included 
Assessment of safety impact of out-of-service plant equipment 
As part of the process for assessing the cumulative effect of out-of-service plant equipment on the 
performance of safety functions, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account: 
1. the assessment includes review of the risk that may result from the proposed maintenance 
activities and how this risk should be assessed and managed; one of the accepted options is to 
use a risk monitor supported by plant-specific PSA, if possible 
2. a process is in place that assures maintenance activities are reviewed by nuclear safety staff, 
as required 
3.5.2 
Work planning, scheduling and execution 
The licensee shall implement processes and procedures for planning, scheduling and executing all 
maintenance activities. Work planning shall take place at the overall plant level and at the 
individual job level. Procedures to deal with any deferral or omission of a scheduled maintenance 
activity shall be included. 
All maintenance personnel shall be made aware of the importance to safety of the tasks they are 
performing and of the potential safety consequences of technical or procedural errors. Clear 
equipment identification procedures shall be used. 
Coordination of work groups shall be incorporated into work planning and scheduling. 
Where appropriate, job briefing documentation shall be prepared during work planning and 
scheduling. 
For work execution, where appropriate, pre- and post-job briefings shall be conducted. 
Maintenance work shall be executed in accordance with the approved work package. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
22 
 
Guidance 
Planning, scheduling and executing maintenance activities 
As part of the processes and procedures for planning, scheduling and executing maintenance 
activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. planning is done on several levels – daily maintenance planning, planning for next scheduled 
outage, and planning for future outages 
2. at the individual job level, planning is done and involves ensuring that the tools, equipment 
and parts are available before the job is scheduled 
3. when appropriate, grouping of maintenance activities is done to minimize equipment 
unavailability 
4. coordination of work groups is incorporated into work planning and scheduling 
5. long-range planning is effectively used for maintenance activities, such as performance of 
major overhauls, modifications or the implementation of engineering changes 
6. a process is in place for scheduling maintenance activities in accordance with their 
importance to safety 
7. the schedules are reviewed routinely and revised to account for changing conditions, 
operating experiences, and schedule delays or required changes 
8. procedures are in place to deal with any deferral or omission of a scheduled maintenance 
activity 
9. deviations from scheduled preventive maintenance outside of grace period are justified and 
authorized by qualified personnel 
10. schedule deviations are minimized and tracked to provide feedback 
11. maintenance activities are executed according to the approved procedures and instructions 
Human performance tools 
To address the potential safety consequences of technical or procedural errors, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following human performance tools have been taken into account: 
1. pre-job and post-job briefings 
2. pre-job briefings include discussion of the following, as appropriate: potential nuclear safety 
impact, personnel safety hazards and protective equipment, special job rules, acceptance 
criteria, hold points and contingencies 
3. where appropriate, post-job briefings include the following: lessons learned, procedure 
adequacy, maintenance practices, as-found condition and emergent work 
4. planning of maintenance activities considers ALARA and conventional safety practices 
5. communications to workers clearly and consistently identify the equipment to be worked on 
and the field nomenclature 
6. other event-free tools, as necessary 
Coordination of work groups 
When coordinating work groups, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account: 
1. pre-job briefings include coordination requirements 
2. effective communication is used between work groups 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
23 
 
3. job briefings for turnover of work to subsequent work groups are conducted to provide as-left 
conditions and job-site hazards 
3.5.3 
Outage activities 
The licensee shall have a process in place to appropriately manage the increased maintenance 
activities during plant outages. Effective work group coordination shall be established. 
The plan to take equipment out of service for maintenance during an outage shall include 
measures to deal with all possible consequences of an event occurring while the equipment is out 
of service. This is particularly important when the equipment in question has a specific safety 
function or heat sink implication. 
When planning and scheduling outage work, an assessment of the cumulative effect of all plant 
equipment that is out of service shall be undertaken to ensure no adverse effects on the 
performance of safety functions. 
Guidance 
Outage activity management 
When managing outage activities, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account, in addition to those in section 3.5.2: 
1. the licensee implements specific procedures for planning outage maintenance activities 
2. the station has a forced outage plan that is current 
Outage safety planning 
When planning and performing maintenance on out-of-service equipment during plant outages, 
licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. the decision to take equipment out of service for maintenance during an outage takes into 
consideration the likelihood and possible consequences of an event occurring while the 
equipment is out of service 
2. outage plans are reviewed for nuclear safety 
3. all work groups review outage plans in their area of responsibility 
4. controls are applied during infrequently performed tests and evolutions to maintain the plant 
within the design basis 
5. contingency plans are written for managing recall times and alternate measures to maintain 
safe shutdown 
6. safety planning includes impacts on operating units or systems 
Outage work scheduling 
When planning and scheduling outage work, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. clear statements are made that identify when safety-related equipment is being taken out of 
service, the duration and the impact of taking that equipment out of service 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
24 
 
2. when scheduling outage work, an assessment takes into account the total plant equipment that 
is planned to be out of service to determine the overall effect on the performance of safety 
functions 
3. reviews are routinely done to capture changes from the original plan and assess the impact 
3.5.4 
Maintenance procedures 
Maintenance shall be performed in accordance with approved written procedures, instructions or 
drawings as appropriate to the situation. 
The licensee shall have a process in place for controlling procedure preparation, review, 
validation, issue, modification and revision. Where appropriate, acceptance criteria shall be 
defined and actions clearly specified in case acceptance criteria cannot be met. 
When a procedure for carrying out a maintenance activity is found to be inadequate, there shall be 
measures to ensure that the activity is halted or safely managed until such time as the inadequacy 
in the procedure is corrected. If the inadequacy is not unique to the situation, a means of 
permanently correcting the procedure shall be provided. 
Procedures shall include specific provisions when particular hazards are envisaged. 
Temporary changes to procedures shall be properly controlled, be subject to review and licensee 
approval and specify the period over which the change is to apply. 
Procedures shall be in place for the turnover of maintenance activities to relieving work crews. 
Guidance 
Procedure quality 
Written procedures, instructions or drawings should demonstrate that the following criteria have 
been taken into account: 
1. maintenance procedures, instructions and drawings are formally approved 
2. mark-up on documentation is verified by independent personnel and subject to appropriate 
approval 
3. maintenance procedures, instructions and drawings are prepared in such quality that take into 
account the following factors: 
• 
maintenance procedures and documents are clear and technically accurate, provide 
appropriate direction, and contain sufficient information for users to understand and 
perform activities effectively 
• 
human factors considerations, such as the sequence of procedure steps and the placement 
of notes and caution statements, are incorporated into procedures to reduce the likelihood 
of error 
• 
procedures include lessons learned from operating experience 
• 
acceptance criteria are defined and actions clearly specified; for example, technical 
details – such as set points, tolerances, control logic and equipment numbers – are correct 
and consistent among procedures, drawings, valve line-up sheets and system descriptions; 
similarly, hold points – such as quality assurance and radiological protection checks – are 
included in procedures as needed 
• 
the level of detail in procedures is consistent with the training and qualification of the 
users 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
25 
 
• 
equipment identification is clear in the work package to ensure that the proper equipment 
is isolated, maintained and returned to service 
• 
requirements for documentation of an action or recording of data are specified, when 
appropriate, in the procedure; the recording of information is done while the task is being 
performed 
Procedure control 
As part of the process for procedure control, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. the licensee has a process in place for controlling procedure preparation, review, validation, 
issuance, modification and revision 
2. procedures are reviewed for technical accuracy, verified and validated for correctness and 
usability prior to initial use 
3. documents, including procedures, drawings and other work-related references, are readily 
accessible and up-to-date 
4. acceptance criteria are defined and actions clearly specified in case acceptance criteria cannot 
be met. Acceptance criteria should not be changed without adequate justification and 
approval 
5. a policy governing the use of procedures is in place and includes the following: 
• 
directions for when procedures are to be used as general guidance, followed step-by-step, 
or signed off for each step 
• 
directions for when a procedure must be physically at the job site 
• 
actions to be taken when procedures conflict or are inadequate for the intended task or 
when unexpected results occur 
• 
actions to be taken when a procedure activity is interrupted 
Procedure adequacy 
When a procedure is found to be inadequate, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place for users to provide feedback to procedure writers to identify such items 
as inaccuracies, difficulties in use, and suggestions for improvement 
2. a process is in place for ensuring a procedure inadequacy is formally corrected, unless the 
change is one-off 
3. when a procedure is found to be invalid: 
• 
work is stopped in a safe manner, until an approved mark-up procedure or a revised 
procedure is issued 
• 
the procedure deficiency is timely and proactively reported through a formal process and, 
if possible, with recommendation for modification 
• 
a risk assessment is conducted to determine the effects of its previous uses, and if 
necessary, appropriate corrective actions are taken 
Identifying hazards 
When particular hazards are envisaged, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria 
have been taken into account: 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
26 
 
1. when appropriate, procedures include cautions, warnings, hazard information to identify 
safety issues regarding maintenance personnel, plant equipment and maintainer actions 
2. the procedure ensures that users are made aware of: 
• 
the potential plant safety consequences of technical or procedural errors 
• 
the safety impact of the tasks they are performing on other plant personnel 
3. if the work is high hazard or complex, prior training and/or rehearsal of the procedure are 
done, to familiarize users and to verify the controls and appropriate contingency actions 
Temporary changes to procedures 
When applying temporary changes to procedures, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. a process is in place for controlling temporary changes to procedures 
2. the period of the temporary change is specified 
3. temporary procedure changes are properly controlled, reviewed and approved for release by 
authorized personnel 
4. administrative control for temporary changes to procedures includes a method to ensure user 
awareness of applicable temporary changes, and timely incorporation into a permanent 
procedure (or made obsolete) 
 
Procedure turnover 
When turning over a procedure to another working group, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. required procedures are in place for the turnover of maintenance activities 
2. completed steps are clearly indicated in the procedure 
3. pertinent maintenance status information is recorded prior to turnover 
4. temporary procedure changes are briefed between “in” and “out” teams 
3.5.5 
Post-maintenance verification and testing 
Before returning equipment to an operational state, the licensee shall ensure that post-
maintenance verification has been completed, the affected configuration is verified, all relevant 
records are reviewed for completeness and any unexpected findings have been assessed and 
dispositioned. Where appropriate, post-maintenance testing shall be conducted and a fitness for 
service assessment shall be completed. 
A process shall be in place to periodically assess that maintenance activities have been carried out 
within licensee expectations. This work shall be done by appropriately qualified individuals who 
do not have direct responsibility for performing the work. Assessment shall include direct 
observation of the specific maintenance activity as well as examination of the documentation. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
27 
 
Guidance 
Returning equipment to operational state 
Before returning equipment to an operational state, licensees should demonstrate that the 
following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. the maintenance process specifies that a task is included to verify that equipment can perform 
its intended function after the maintenance activities are complete 
2. the affected SSC configuration is verified before it is returned to service 
3. any unexpected findings during post-maintenance verification and testing have been assessed 
and dispositioned 
4. before returning equipment to an operational state, the licensee has ensured that post-
maintenance verification has been completed 
Maintenance activity evaluation 
As part of the process to periodically evaluate maintenance activities, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. relevant records for the maintenance activity are reviewed for completeness 
2. work sites are clean and in orderly condition 
3. evaluation work is done by appropriately qualified individuals 
4. evaluation includes direct observation of the specific maintenance activity 
3.6 
Spare parts and procurement 
The licensee shall establish processes and procedures to procure, receive, store, secure and issue 
spare parts, tools and materials. 
Authority for specifying technical and quality requirements shall be clearly defined when 
procuring spare parts. The spares shall meet the same technical standards and quality 
requirements as the installed plant items. The licensee shall have a change control process in 
place to deal with non-identical replacement parts and deviations from the original specifications. 
Procurement processes shall include requirements for qualified suppliers. The receipt and 
acceptance procedures shall include a requirement to label, tag and quarantine items that are non-
conforming. 
Parts which have a limited lifetime shall be replaced accordingly. This is to ensure suitability for 
the expected service when needed. Defective parts which are not suitable for reuse shall be 
disposed of following a documented process to prevent reuse. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
28 
 
Guidance 
Spare parts and tools management 
As part of the processes and procedures to procure, receive, store, secure and issue spare parts, 
tools and materials, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into 
account: 
1. procurement programs conform to applicable safety standards 
2. issuing of materials, tools and spare parts is controlled 
3. materials and tools are controlled to prevent misuse, abuse or damage 
4. spare parts and tools are stored in the facilities: 
• 
with appropriate environmental conditions, such as temperature, humidity, etc. 
• 
taking foreign material exclusion (FME) into account 
5. a process exists for controlling unused parts 
6. parts that are not suitable for use are controlled and dispositioned, following a documented 
process 
7. a tool maintenance program exists 
8. defective tools that are not suitable for use are disposed of following a documented process to 
prevent reuse 
Technical requirements for spare parts 
When procuring spare parts, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been 
taken into account: 
1. spare part technical requirements conform to applicable safety standards 
2. a process is in place for maintenance personnel to deal with non-identical replacement parts 
and deviations from the original specifications 
Qualified suppliers for spare parts 
The licensee should ensure that qualified suppliers are identified according to applicable safety 
standards. 
When replacing parts that have a limited lifetime, licensees should demonstrate that the following 
criteria have been taken into account: 
1. parts which have a limited lifetime are controlled 
2. a process exists for ensuring preventive maintenance is performed as required on materials 
and equipment in storage; these activities are documented and made available to the plant 
personnel 
3.7 
Management assessment and program review 
The licensee shall establish a continuous process for assessment, review and improvement of the 
maintenance program to ensure that the maintenance strategy is effective, meets its objectives and 
has been implemented in accordance with applicable industry codes and standards. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
29 
 
Whenever a maintenance program deficiency is identified, its significance shall be assessed and 
where appropriate a cause determination shall be conducted and corrective actions taken. All 
reviews and assessments shall be properly documented and recorded. 
Feedback from the improvement process shall be incorporated into the maintenance training 
program. 
Guidance 
Assessment process 
When establishing a continuous process for assessment, review and improvement of the 
maintenance program, licensees should demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken 
into account: 
1. goals are established for continuous improvement, and a strategic direction for improving 
performance is established 
2. the priorities for performance are clearly identified for maintenance personnel 
3. managers are committed to improve station performance and to achieve station goals and 
objectives 
4. meaningful indicators are established and used to monitor and improve maintenance 
performance; the results are measurable and are periodically evaluated, to determine 
effectiveness 
5. management expectations and station processes and performance are compared with industry 
benchmarks, to improve performance and identify opportunities to achieve best practices 
6. future resource needs, such as maintenance personnel, equipment, tools, spare parts and 
information are identified and integrated into business plans 
7. self-assessment and peer audits are used to determine the effectiveness of processes and work 
activities and to identify improvement actions, and any follow-up action items are tracked to 
completion and periodically reviewed for timeliness and effectiveness 
8. maintenance managers routinely monitor, observe, and assess maintenance work activities 
and plant conditions to maintain and reinforce high standards of performance 
Deficiency assessment 
Licensees are required to have a process in place for dispositioning maintenance program 
deficiencies. Whenever a maintenance program deficiency is identified, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. for program improvement purposes, findings from such things as events, rework, material 
defects and other symptoms of maintenance ineffectiveness are identified, assessed, 
documented, and trended 
2. corrective actions are prioritized, assigned, tracked and completed in a timely fashion, so as 
to prevent recurrence 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
30 
 
Feedback 
When incorporating feedback from the improvement process, licensees should demonstrate that 
the following criteria have been taken into account: 
1. changes in objectives, responsibilities, practices and processes are clearly communicated to 
affected personnel, and appropriate training is provided 
2. maintenance managers motivate personnel to improve performance by encouraging feedback 
for the training program 
3. all program reviews and assessments are evaluated for inclusion in the training program 
3.8 
Record keeping 
In addition to complying with the NSCA, regulations, and any other reporting and record-keeping 
requirements (such as CNSC document REGDOC-3.1.1, Reporting Requirements for Nuclear 
Power Plants [3]), the records and reports shall include sufficient information to provide 
objective evidence that the maintenance program is being fully implemented and in accordance 
with the quality assurance program. 
The licensee shall document a description of repairs carried out, identifying the component that 
failed, the cause of failure, the remedial action taken, and the state of the system after repairs. The 
licensee shall periodically review the maintenance results for evidence of incipient or recurring 
failures. 
Guidance 
Compliance 
To comply with reporting and record-keeping requirements, licensees should clearly define which 
records have to be kept, and these records should provide objective evidence that the maintenance 
program is being effectively implemented and the applicable standards are met. The records 
should include the following: 
1. maintenance work records 
2. maintenance program and procedure revision records 
3. staff training and qualification records 
4. instrument and equipment qualification records 
5. maintenance performance evaluation reports 
6. system health reports 
7. performance indicators report 
8. maintenance-related events report 
9. maintenance-related inspection and audit reports 
10. performance demonstration records 
For more information on reporting and record-keeping, refer to REGDOC-3.1.1, Reporting 
Requirements for Nuclear Power Plants [3]. 
Repair records 
To comply with reporting and record-keeping requirements for repairs, licensees should 
demonstrate that the following criteria have been taken into account: 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
31 
 
1. maintenance results are periodically reviewed for seeking evidence of incipient or recurring 
failures 
2. as-found and as-left conditions of the equipment and work performed are accurately 
documented 
3. maintenance records are kept and maintained to facilitate reviews and collection of evidence 
of incipient or recurring failures 
4. records from lessons learned, user feedback, maintenance history and operating experience 
are retrievable, and stored in a format useful for maintenance reviews 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
32 
 
Glossary 
aging management 
Engineering, operations, inspection, and maintenance actions to control, within acceptable limits, the 
effects of physical aging and obsolescence of structures, systems or components. 
as-found condition 
The condition in which a system or a portion of system is found after a period of operation and before 
maintenance (if necessary). 
baseline criteria  
A set of measurements (or metrics) representing the starting level of performance for a SSC. Baseline 
criteria are derived from design requirements and are usually established during commissioning and after 
replacement, overhaul or refurbishment. 
calibration  
The process to verify that with a known precision input, an instrument or channel gives the required 
output. 
condition monitoring  
Continuous or periodic inspections, measurements or trending of the performance or physical 
characteristics of SSCs to indicate current or future performance and the potential for failure. 
corrective maintenance 
Actions that, by means of repair, overhaul or replacement, restore the capability of a failed SSC to 
perform its defined function within acceptance criteria. 
failure  
The inability or interruption of ability of an SSC to function within acceptance criteria. 
function testing  
Testing done to verify that a SSC is capable of performing its design function. 
in-service inspection  
A periodic non-destructive examination of nuclear power plant SSCs in order to provide information 
about their current condition and damage, defect or degradation that might occur. 
inspection  
An examination, observation, measurement or test undertaken to assess an SSC’s condition. 
licensing basis  
Sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or activity, and thus 
establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program in respect of that regulated facility or activity. 
For a regulated facility or activity, the set of requirements and documents comprise: 
(i) the regulatory requirements set out in the applicable laws and regulations 
(ii) the conditions and safety and control measures described in the facility’s or activity’s licence and the 
documents directly referenced in that licence 
(iii) the safety and control measures described in the licence application and the documents needed to 
support that licence application 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
33 
 
maintenance  
The organized activities, both administrative and technical, of keeping SSCs in good operating condition, 
including both preventive and corrective (or repair) aspects. 
modification 
Any alteration or addition that is temporary or permanent, to an SSC’s physical configuration or design 
requirements. 
monitoring  
See condition monitoring 
nuclear power plant (NPP)  
Any nuclear fission reactor installation that has been constructed to generate electricity on a commercial 
scale and is a Class IA nuclear facility, as defined in the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations. 
overhaul  
The comprehensive inspection and restoration of a SSC in order to maintain it in good operating 
condition or to restore its ability to function as per design. Includes such things as disassembly, cleaning, 
lubricating, adjusting, parts inspection or replacement and testing. 
parameter expectations  
Measures of criteria against which the performance of a SSC can be judged. 
performance testing  
Testing done to determine whether a system meets specified acceptance criteria. 
periodic maintenance  
Form of preventive maintenance consisting of servicing, parts replacement, surveillance, or testing at 
predetermined intervals of calendar time, operating time or number of cycles. Also known as time-based 
maintenance. 
permanent repair  
Any activity that restores a failed or degraded SSC to function within its original design. 
personnel qualification  
A formal statement that an individual or team possesses the education, training and experience required to 
meet specified job performance requirements. A formal statement of competence. 
planned maintenance  
Form of preventive maintenance consisting of refurbishment or replacement that is scheduled and 
performed prior to unacceptable degradation of a SSC. 
predictive maintenance  
Form of preventive maintenance performed continuously or at intervals governed by observed condition 
to monitor, diagnose or trend an SSC’s condition indicators. Results indicate current and future functional 
ability or the nature of and schedule for planned maintenance. Also known as condition-based 
maintenance. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
34 
 
preventive maintenance  
Actions that detect, preclude or mitigate degradation of a functional SSC to sustain or extend its useful 
life by controlling degradation and failures to an acceptable level. Preventive maintenance may be 
periodic, planned or predictive. 
repair  
Any activity that allows a failed or degraded SSC to function as per original design. May be permanent or 
temporary. 
replacement  
The substitution of an SSC with an identical SSC or an SSC that has been approved as equivalent through 
an equivalency process. 
safe operating envelope (SOE) 
The set of limits and conditions within which the nuclear power plant must be operated to ensure 
compliance with the safety analysis upon which the reactor operation is licensed and that can be 
monitored by or on behalf of the operator and can be controlled by the operator. 
SSCs important to safety 
Structures, systems and components of the NPP associated with the initiation, prevention, detection or 
mitigation of any failure sequence that have the most significant impact in reducing the possibility of 
damage to fuel, associated release of radionuclide, or both structures, systems or components (SSCs) 
structures, systems or components (SSCs) 
A general term encompassing all of the elements (items) of a facility or activity that contribute to 
protection and safety. Structures are the passive elements: buildings, vessels, shielding, etc. A system 
comprises several components, assembled in such a way as to perform a specific (active) function. A 
component is a discrete element of a system. Examples are wires, transistors, integrated circuits, motors, 
relays, solenoids, pipes, fittings, pumps, tanks, and valves. 
surveillance 
Activities carried out to confirm compliance with the safe operating envelope (SOE), to verify correct 
operational states and to detect any abnormal condition before it can impair the SSC’s ability to meet its 
design intent. 
temporary repair  
A repair that temporarily enables a failed or degraded SSC to function within its original design until a 
permanent repair or a replacement can be completed. 
testing 
The observation or measurement of condition or functional indicators under controlled conditions to 
verify that the current performance of an SSC conforms to acceptance criteria. 
thermography  
A diagnostic technique, which uses a thermograph to record the heat produced by different components. 
time-based preventive maintenance  
Maintenance performed on equipment in accordance with a set time period (predefined) or given amount 
of operation. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
35 
 
trained and qualified  
An individual who has achieved the specified level of knowledge, skills, attitudes and experience required 
to meet job performance requirements. 
training  
A combination of activities with the purpose of providing the knowledge, skills and attitudes to 
individuals or teams in order to allow performance of activities in an effective and efficient manner and to 
identified standards. 
tribology 
The systematic study of friction and its effects. 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
36 
 
References 
1. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC), REGDOC-2.6.1, Reliability Programs for 
Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, Canada, 2017 
2. CNSC, REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management, Ottawa, Canada, 2014 
3. CNSC, REGDOC-3.1.1, Reporting Requirements for Nuclear Power Plants, version 2, 
Ottawa, Canada, 2016 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
37 
 
Additional Information 
The following documents contain additional information that may be of interest to persons 
involved in maintenance programs for nuclear power plants. 
• 
Canadian Standards Association (CSA), N286-12, Management system requirements for 
nuclear facilities, 2012 
• 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), TECDOC-658, Safety Related Maintenance in 
the Framework of the Reliability Centered Maintenance Concept, Vienna, 1992 
• 
IAEA, TECDOC-928, Good Practices for Cost Effective Maintenance of Nuclear Power 
Plants, Vienna, 1997 
• 
IAEA, TECDOC-960, Regulatory Surveillance of Safety Related Maintenance at Nuclear 
Power Plants, Vienna, 1997 
• 
IAEA, TECDOC-1383, Guidance for Optimizing Nuclear Power Plant Maintenance 
Programmes, Vienna, 2003 
• 
IAEA, Safety Standards Series, No. NS-G-2.6, Maintenance, Surveillance and In-service 
Inspection in Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 2002 
• 
IAEA, Safety Standards Series, No. NS-R-2, Safety of Nuclear Power Plants: Operation, 
Vienna, 2000 
• 
IAEA, Safety Standards Series, No. 42, Safety Culture in the Maintenance of Nuclear Power 
Plants, Vienna, 2005 
• 
IAEA, Safety Series, No. 110, Fundamental Safety Principles, Vienna, 2006 
August 2017 
REGDOC-2.6.2, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
 
38 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
3.6  
Glossary of CNSC terminology 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website. 
 
