 
 
 
 
 
 
Waste Management 
Framework for Radioactive Waste 
Management and Decommissioning 
in Canada 
 
 
REGDOC-2.11, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2021
 
 
 
 
 
 
Framework for Radioactive Waste Management and Decommissioning in Canada  
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.11, Version 2  
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2021 
Cat. No. CC172-204/2021E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-37606-6 
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the CNSC. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Cadre de gestion des déchets radioactifs et du déclassement 
au Canada, version 2 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website. To request a copy of the document in English or 
French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, ON  K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Fax: 613-995-5086 
Email: cnsc.info.ccsn@canada.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Twitter: @CNSC_CCSN 
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/cnsc-ccsn 
Publishing history 
December 2018  
Version 1 
Mars 2021  
 
Version 2 
 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
i 
Preface 
This regulatory document is part of the CNSC’s waste management series of regulatory documents, 
which covers the management of radioactive waste, including uranium mine waste rock, uranium mine 
and mill tailings, and decommissioning. The full list of regulatory document series is included at the end 
of this document and can also be found on the CNSC’s website. 
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste Management and 
Decommissioning in Canada, provides overview information on the governance and regulatory 
framework for radioactive waste management and decommissioning in Canada. This overview provides 
the basis for the other documents in the waste management series: 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume I: Management of Radioactive Waste 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II: Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock 
and Mill Tailings 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume III: Safety Case for the Disposal of Radioactive 
Waste 
 
REGDOC-2.11.2, Decommissioning 
For information on the implementation of regulatory documents and on the graded approach, see 
REGDOC-3.5.3, Regulatory Fundamentals. 
 
The words “shall” and “must” are used to express requirements to be satisfied by the licensee or 
licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is advised. “May” is used to 
express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of this regulatory document. 
“Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Scope 
1 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
............................................................................................................. 1 
2. 
Canada’s National Framework for the Management of Radioactive Waste ...............2 
3. 
The CNSC’s Regulatory Framework and Oversight of Waste Management and 
Decommissioning................................................................................................................3 
4. 
International Obligations ..................................................................................................5 
Glossary ..........................................................................................................................................6 
References 
.......................................................................................................................................7 
Additional Information .................................................................................................................8 
 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
1 
 
Framework for Waste Management and Decommissioning in Canada 
1. 
Introduction 
Radioactive waste in Canada is defined as any material (liquid, gaseous or solid) that contains a 
radioactive nuclear substance, as defined in section 2 of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act 
(NSCA), for which no further use is foreseen. In addition to containing nuclear substances, 
radioactive waste may also contain hazardous substances that are not radioactive, as defined in 
section 1 of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations.  
Under Canada’s national framework for radioactive waste management (described in section 2), 
waste owners are required to manage this waste in a safe and secure manner, and to arrange for its 
long-term management. 
This regulatory document also provides an overview of the framework for the planning, 
preparation, execution and completion of decommissioning in Canada. The CNSC defines 
decommissioning as the administrative and technical actions taken to allow the removal of some 
or all of the regulatory controls from a facility, location or site where nuclear substances are 
managed, used, possessed or stored. Decommissioning actions are the procedures, processes and 
work activities (such as storage with surveillance, decontamination, dismantling or cleanup) that 
are taken to retire a facility, location or site from service with due regard for the health and safety 
of people and the environment. 
1.1 Purpose 
This document provides information on the framework for radioactive waste management and 
decommissioning in Canada. It describes the philosophy underlying the CNSC’s approach to 
regulating the management of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of facilities, locations 
or sites, and explains the principles taken into account in CNSC regulatory decisions. This 
document also details the CNSC’s regulatory policy that: 
 
requires the implementation of measures to manage radioactive waste to:  
 
protect the health and safety of persons and the environment 
 
provide for the maintenance of national security 
 
achieve conformity with measures of control and international obligations to which 
Canada has agreed 
 
promotes consistent national and international standards and practices for decommissioning 
and the management and control of radioactive waste 
1.2 Scope 
This regulatory document is relevant to all radioactive waste management, including the 
generation, handling, processing, storage, transport and disposal of radioactive waste, and all 
phases of decommissioning, including planning, preparation, execution and completion, in 
Canada. 
1.3 Relevant legislation 
In addition to the NSCA and its regulations, the following federal legislation is relevant to the 
regulation and management of radioactive waste and decommissioning in Canada: 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
2 
 
 
Nuclear Fuel Waste Act 
 
Nuclear Liability and Compensation Act 
 
Nuclear Energy Act  
 
Impact Assessment Act 
 
Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999  
 
Fisheries Act  
Several Government of Canada departments and agencies are involved in administering these 
legislative instruments. Where multiple regulators are involved, the CNSC may coordinate 
activities in order to optimize regulatory efforts. 
In addition, the nuclear industry is subject to the provincial acts and regulations in force within 
the individual provinces and territories where nuclear-related activities are carried out. Where 
jurisdictions and responsibilities overlap, the CNSC leads efforts to harmonize regulatory 
activities, including joint regulatory groups that involve provincial and territorial regulators. 
2. 
Canada’s National Framework for the Management of Radioactive Waste 
Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) is the lead government department responsible for 
developing and implementing federal nuclear energy policy across the nuclear supply chain – 
from uranium mining to the final disposition of waste. NRCan’s functions include administering 
the Nuclear Fuel Waste Act (NFWA), the Nuclear Liability and Compensation Act (NLCA) and 
the Radioactive Waste Policy Framework [1]. 
Radioactive Waste Policy Framework 
The Government of Canada's Radioactive Waste Policy Framework [1], established through 
NRCan, specifies that: 
 
the Government of Canada will ensure that radioactive waste disposal is carried out in a safe, 
environmentally sound, comprehensive, cost-effective and integrated manner 
 
the Government of Canada is responsible for developing policy, and regulating and 
overseeing radioactive waste producers and owners to ensure that they comply with legal 
requirements and meet their funding and operational responsibilities in accordance with 
approved waste management plans 
 
waste owners are responsible, in accordance with the “polluter pays” principle, for the 
funding, organization, management and operation of the facilities, locations or sites required 
to safely manage their wastes over the short and long terms. The framework recognizes that 
arrangements may be different for the four general classes of radioactive waste in Canada:  
 
low-level radioactive waste 
 
intermediate-level radioactive waste 
 
high-level radioactive waste 
 
uranium mine and mill waste 
 
For more information on the classification and characterization of radioactive waste, consult the 
following CNSC infographics: What is Radioactive Waste? [2] and Radioactive Waste 
Characterization [3]. 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
3 
 
Nuclear Fuel Waste Act 
In 2002, Parliament passed the NFWA, which required nuclear energy corporations to establish a 
waste management organization as a separate legal entity to manage the full range of activities for 
the long-term management of used nuclear fuel. The NFWA also required that this waste 
management organization prepare and submit a study to the Government of Canada on proposed 
approaches for the long-term management of the used fuel. Under this Act, the Government of 
Canada was designated responsible for: 
 
reviewing the waste management organization’s study on proposed approaches for the long-
term management of spent fuel 
 
selecting a long-term management option from those proposed and outlined in the study 
 
providing oversight during the implementation of the selected option 
In accordance with the NFWA’s requirement to establish a waste management organization as 
outlined above, Canada’s nuclear electricity producers established the Nuclear Waste 
Management Organization (NWMO) in 2002. The NWMO was given the responsibility for 
designing and implementing Canada’s plan for the safe, long-term management of used nuclear 
fuel. After a comprehensive three-year study and extensive public engagement, the NWMO 
presented the study, including its preferred approach, to the Government of Canada. In 2007, the 
NWMO’s recommendation of Adaptive Phased Management (APM) [4] was selected as the 
preferred approach for the safe and secure long-term management of Canada’s used nuclear fuel. 
APM – which involves the containment and isolation of Canada’s used fuel at a new repository 
site – comprises six phases, starting with site selection to post-closure monitoring of the site. The 
NWMO is now responsible for implementing APM, subject to all necessary regulatory approvals. 
3. 
The CNSC’s Regulatory Framework and Oversight of Waste Management and 
Decommissioning 
The CNSC has developed a comprehensive regulatory framework that guides its regulation of 
Canada’s nuclear industry. A complete overview of the CNSC’s regulatory framework can be 
found in section 3 of REGDOC-3.5.3, Regulatory Fundamentals [5]. 
With respect to radioactive waste management and decommissioning, this framework comprises: 
 
the NSCA and its associated regulations 
 
licences and their accompanying licence conditions handbooks 
 
the regulatory documents related to waste management and decommissioning: 
 
REGDOC-1.2.1, Guidance on Deep Geological Repository Site Characterization [6] 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume I: Management of Radioactive Waste [7] 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II: Management of Uranium Mine Waste 
Rock and Mill Tailings [8] 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume III: Safety Case for the Disposal of 
Radioactive Waste  [9] 
 
REGDOC-2.11.2, Decommissioning [10] 
 
REGDOC-3.3.1, Financial Guarantees for Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities and 
Termination of Licensed Activities [11] 
 
guidance, which is used to inform applicants or licensees on how to meet requirements, to 
elaborate further on requirements, or to provide best practices 
 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
4 
 
In developing the documents and guidance that fall under its regulatory framework, the CNSC 
draws upon recommendations of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), as well as 
information on best practices from the international and national community. This information 
includes CSA Group standards, which complement CNSC regulatory documents.   
In the regulation of radioactive waste management and decommissioning, the CNSC makes 
appropriate use of industry standards created by independent, third-party standard-setting 
organizations, such as the CSA Group. The following CSA Group standards are relevant to waste 
management and decommissioning: 
 
CSA N292.0, General principles for the management of radioactive waste and irradiated fuel 
[12] 
 
CSA N292.1, Wet storage of irradiated fuel and other radioactive materials [13] 
 
CSA N292.2, Interim dry storage of irradiated fuel [14] 
 
CSA N292.3, Management of low- and intermediate-level radioactive waste [15] 
 
CSA N292.5, Guideline for the exemption or clearance from regulatory control of materials 
that contain, or potentially contain, nuclear substances [16] 
 
CSA N292.6, Long-term management of radioactive waste and irradiated fuel [17] 
 
CSA N294, Decommissioning of facilities containing nuclear substances [18] 
Under the CNSC’s performance-based approach to regulation, the licence applicant proposes a 
waste management or decommissioning approach supported by scientifically defensible 
benchmarks. The CNSC then assesses the proposal against existing regulatory requirements to 
ensure the health, safety, and security of the public and the protection of the environment.  
Oversight of radioactive waste management 
The CNSC is responsible for licensing the management of radioactive waste, including, as 
applicable, its generation, handling, processing, transport, storage and disposal. Since all nuclear 
substances associated with licensed activities will eventually become radioactive waste, the safe 
management of all radioactive waste is considered during the licensing review process for any 
CNSC-licensed facility or activity. 
When making regulatory decisions about the management of radioactive waste, the CNSC 
considers the extent to which the owners of the waste have addressed the following six principles: 
 
generation of radioactive waste is minimized to the extent practicable by the implementation 
of design measures, operating procedures and decommissioning practices 
 
management of radioactive waste is commensurate with the waste’s radiological, chemical 
and biological hazard to the health and safety of persons, to the environment and to national 
security 
 
assessment of future impacts of radioactive waste on the health and safety of persons and the 
environment encompasses the period of time during which the maximum impact is predicted 
to occur 
 
predicted impacts on the health and safety of persons and the environment from the 
management of radioactive waste are no greater than the impacts that are permissible in 
Canada at the time of the regulatory decision 
 
measures needed to prevent unreasonable risk to present and future generations from the 
hazards of radioactive waste are developed, funded and implemented as soon as reasonably 
practicable 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
5 
 
 
trans-border effects on the health and safety of persons and the environment that could result 
from the management of radioactive waste in Canada are not greater than the effects 
experienced in Canada 
The CNSC is committed to optimizing regulatory efforts, and to consulting and cooperating with 
provincial, national and international agencies to:  
 
promote harmonized regulation and consistent national and international standards for the 
management of radioactive waste 
 
achieve conformity with the measures of control and international obligations to which 
Canada has agreed concerning radioactive waste 
Decommissioning 
In accordance with CNSC regulatory document REGDOC-2.11.2, Decommissioning [10], 
licensees have up-to-date decommissioning plans that are maintained throughout the lifecycle of a 
licensed facility. In addition, the CNSC requires all licensees to implement financial guarantees to 
cover the cost of decommissioning work resulting from the licensed activities. Decommissioning 
plans that assume the need for post-closure licensing, monitoring, surveillance and maintenance 
of the decommissioned activities include financial provisions for these actions. For more 
information on financial guaranties, see regulatory document REGDOC-3.3.1, Financial 
Guarantees for Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities and Termination of Licensed Activities 
[11]. 
Licensees prepare a preliminary decommissioning plan (PDP) and a detailed decommissioning 
plan (DDP). The PDP is filed with the CNSC as early as possible in the lifecycle of the facility 
and is reviewed and updated periodically. The DDP is filed with the CNSC prior to 
decommissioning and is required for appropriate licensing action (i.e., a licence to authorize 
decommissioning activities). Proponents propose their preferred strategy as part of their PDP. 
Before any proposed decommissioning strategy is executed, it must be supported by a safety 
assessment that the CNSC evaluates against regulatory requirements to ensure the protection of 
the health, safety, and security of the public and the protection of the environment.  
4. 
International Obligations  
Canada is a signatory to the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the 
Safety of Radioactive Waste Management (Joint Convention) [19], an international agreement 
governing all aspects of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The Joint 
Convention is a legally binding treaty that aims to ensure worldwide safe management of 
radioactive waste. It represents the participating countries’ commitment to achieving and 
maintaining a consistent high level of safety in the management of spent fuel and radioactive 
waste as part of the global safety regime for ensuring the protection of people and the 
environment. The Joint Convention allows for the international peer review of a country’s 
radioactive waste management programs. Prior to the peer review, Canada submits a national 
report demonstrating the measures taken to implement the agreement’s obligations. Canada’s 
national reports to the Joint Convention are published every three years. 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
6 
 
Glossary 
For definitions of the terms used in this document, see REGDOC-3.6, Glossary of CNSC Terminology, 
which includes terms and definitions used in the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and the regulations made 
under it, and in CNSC regulatory documents and other publications. REGDOC-3.6 is provided for 
reference and information. 
 
 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
7 
 
References 
1. Natural Resources Canada. Radioactive Waste Policy Framework. 
2. CNSC. What Is Radioactive Waste? 
3. CNSC. Radioactive Waste Characterization.  
4. Nuclear Waste Management Organization. Adaptive Phased Management (APM). 
5. CNSC. REGDOC-3.5.3, Regulatory Fundamentals. Ottawa, 2021. 
6. CNSC. REGDOC-1.2.1, Guidance on Deep Geological Repository Site Characterization. 
Ottawa, Ottawa, 2021. 
 
7. CNSC. REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume I: Management of Radioactive Waste. 
Ottawa, Ottawa, 2021. 
8. CNSC. REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II: Management of Uranium Mine Waste 
Rock and Mill Tailings. Ottawa, 2018. 
 
9. CNSC. REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume III: Safety Case for the Disposal of 
Radioactive Waste. Ottawa, 2021. 
 
10. CNSC. REGDOC-2.11.2, Decommissioning. Ottawa, 2021. 
11. CNSC. REGDOC-3.3.1, Financial Guarantees for Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities and 
Termination of Licensed Activities. Ottawa, 2021. 
12. CSA Group. CSA N292.0-14, General Principles For The Management Of Radioactive Waste 
and Irradiated Fuel. Toronto, 2014. 
 
13. CSA Group. CSA N292.1, Wet Storage of Irradiated Fuel and Other Radioactive Materials. 
Toronto, 2016.  
 
14. CSA Group. CSA N292.2, Interim Dry Storage of Irradiated Fuel. Toronto, 2013. 
 
15. CSA Group. CSA N292.3, Management of Low- and Intermediate-Level Radioactive Waste. 
Toronto, 2014. 
 
16. CSA Group. CSA N292.5, Guideline for the exemption or clearance from regulatory control of 
materials that contain, or potentially contain, nuclear substances. Toronto, 2011. 
 
17. CSA Group. CSA N292.6, Long-Term Management of Radioactive Waste and Irradiated Fuel. 
Toronto, 2018. 
 
18. CSA Group. CSA N294, Decommissioning of Facilities Containing Nuclear Substances. 
Toronto, 2009. 
19. CNSC. Canadian National Report for the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel 
Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. Ottawa, 2020. 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
8 
 
Additional Information 
The following documents are not referenced in this regulatory document but contain information that may 
be useful to the reader: 
 
CNSC. CNSC research on geologic repositories. 
 
CNSC. Deep Geologic Repositories.  
 
CNSC. Oversight of Canada's Framework for Radioactive Waste Management. 
 
 CNSC. Regulating Canada's Geological Repositories. 
 
CNSC. Uranium Mining and Milling: The Facts on a Well-Regulated Industry.  
 
IAEA. IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GSR Part 5, Predisposal Management of Radioactive 
Waste. Vienna, 2009. 
 
IAEA. IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GSR Part 6, Decommissioning of Facilities. Vienna, 
2014. 
 
IAEA. IAEA Safety Standards Series No. SSR-5, Disposal of Radioactive Waste. Vienna, 2011. 
 
 
 
March 2021 
REGDOC-2.11, Framework for Radioactive Waste  
 
Management and Decommissioning in Canada, Version 2 
 
 
9 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the CNSC. In addition to the 
NSCA and associated regulations, these facilities and activities may also be required to comply with 
other regulatory instruments such as regulatory documents or standards. 
CNSC regulatory documents are classified under the following categories and series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Indigenous engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
3.6  
Glossary of CNSC terminology 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. Visit the CNSC’s website for 
the latest list of regulatory documents. 
 
