Juin 2013 
REGDOC-2.2.1, Rendement humain : Gérer la fatigue et les heures de travail 
 
Human Performance Management 
Fitness for Duty: 
Managing Worker Fatigue  
 
 
REGDOC-2.2.4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2017 
 
 
 
 
Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue  
Regulatory Document REGDOC-2.2.4  
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2017  
PWGSC catalogue number CC172-166/2016E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-06961-6  
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre de : Aptitude au travail : Gérer la fatigue des travailleurs 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website at nuclearsafety.gc.ca or to request a copy of the 
document in English or French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Facsimile: 613-995-5086 
Email: info@cnsc-ccsn.gc.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Twitter: @CNSC_CCSN 
 
Publishing history 
March 2017 
 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
i 
 
Preface 
This regulatory document is part of the CNSC’s Human Performance Management series of regulatory 
documents, which covers human factors, personnel training, personnel certification, and fitness for duty. 
The full list of regulatory document series is included at the end of this document and can also be found 
on the CNSC’s website at nuclearsafety.gc.ca/eng/acts-and-regulations/regulatory-documents. 
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue, sets out 
requirements and guidance of the CNSC with respect to managing worker fatigue for workers at 
high-security sites, as defined in the Nuclear Security Regulations. For the purpose of this regulatory 
document, nuclear safety encompasses security. 
This document is intended to form part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or for a regulated 
activity, either as part of the conditions and safety and control measures in a licence, or as part of the 
safety and control measures to be described in a licence application and the documents needed to support 
that application. 
For proposed new facilities, this document will be used to assess new licence applications. For existing 
facilities, the requirements contained in this document do not apply unless they have been included, in 
whole or in part, in the licence or licensing basis. 
Guidance contained in this document provides information on how requirements may be met. Licensees 
and applicants are expected to review and consider guidance; should they choose not to follow it, they 
should explain how their chosen alternate approach meets regulatory requirements.  
The CNSC’s regulatory framework provides an interlinked set of regulatory requirements for the 
management of nuclear facilities and activities. The management system established in the licensing basis 
for a regulated facility or activity provides an overall management framework and direction to develop 
and implement sound management practices and controls for the licensing basis. This regulatory 
document does not duplicate generic management system requirements. However, it provides more 
specific direction for those requirements as they apply to managing worker fatigue. 
A graded approach, commensurate with risk, may be defined and used when applying the requirements 
and guidance contained in this regulatory document. The use of a graded approach is not a relaxation of 
requirements. With a graded approach, the application of requirements is commensurate with the risks 
and particular characteristics of the facility or activity. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
i 
 
Important note: Where referenced in a licence either directly or indirectly (such as through licensee-
referenced documents), this document is part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity.  
The licensing basis sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or 
activity, and establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program for that regulated facility or 
activity.  
Where this document is part of the licensing basis, the word “shall” is used to express a requirement to 
be satisfied by the licensee or licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is 
advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of 
this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
i 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
............................................................................................................. 1 
2. 
Background ........................................................................................................................2 
3. 
Programmatic Elements Applicable to the Broad Population ......................................3 
3.1 
Establishing limits on hours of work and recovery periods 
................................................ 3 
3.2 
Identifying and managing worker fatigue 
........................................................................... 3 
3.3 
Authorities, accountabilities and responsibilities................................................................ 4 
3.4 
Training and education ....................................................................................................... 4 
3.5 
Control of changes to shift schedules ................................................................................. 5 
3.6 
Problem identification and resolution 
................................................................................. 5 
3.7 
Assessment and continual improvement 
............................................................................. 6 
4. 
Limits on Hours of Work and Recovery Periods Applicable to Safety-Sensitive 
Positions ..............................................................................................................................6 
4.1 
Identification of safety-sensitive positions ......................................................................... 6 
4.2 
Limits on hours of work applicable to safety-sensitive positions ....................................... 7 
4.3 
Recovery periods applicable to safety-sensitive positions 
.................................................. 7 
4.4 
Exceptional circumstances 
.................................................................................................. 9 
4.5 
Records ............................................................................................................................... 9 
Appendix: Hours of Work and Recovery Periods for Safety-Sensitive Positions 
..................10 
Glossary ........................................................................................................................................11 
References 
.....................................................................................................................................14 
Additional Information ...............................................................................................................15 
 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
1. 
Introduction 
Human performance is a key contributor to the safety and security of nuclear facilities, so the 
CNSC requires licensees to implement and maintain human performance programs. These 
programs address a broad range of factors that affect human performance, with the aim of 
minimizing the potential for errors that could affect nuclear safety and security. One of these 
factors is a worker’s fitness for duty. 
Fatigue is widely recognized to affect fitness for duty because of its potential to degrade several 
aspects of human performance. Therefore, licensees must address fatigue as part of their approach 
to ensure that workers are fit for duty.  
1.1 
Purpose 
This regulatory document specifies requirements and gives guidance for managing worker fatigue 
with the aim of minimizing the potential for errors that could affect nuclear safety and security. 
For the purpose of this regulatory document, managing worker fatigue encompasses measures to 
manage risks associated with fatigue, including measures to manage the level of fatigue that 
workers experience at work and to reduce the likelihood and consequences of fatigue-related 
errors.  
1.2 
Scope 
This regulatory document applies to high-security sites, as defined in the Nuclear Security 
Regulations.  
The requirements and guidance in section 3 of this regulatory document apply to the population 
of workers who have the potential through their work activities to pose a risk to nuclear safety or 
security, also referred to as the broad population.  
Requirements and guidance in section 4 apply to a smaller subset of workers who fill safety-
sensitive positions, as described in section 4.1. 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
The following provisions of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA) and regulations made 
under the NSCA are relevant to this regulatory document:  
• 
Sub-paragraph 9(a)(i) of the NSCA states that one of the objects of the Commission is “to 
regulate the development, production and use of nuclear energy and the production, 
possession and use of nuclear substances, prescribed equipment and prescribed information in 
order to prevent unreasonable risk, to the environment and to the health and safety of persons, 
associated with that development, production, possession or use”. 
• 
Paragraph 12(1)(a) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations requires that 
every licensee shall “ensure the presence of a sufficient number of qualified workers to carry 
on the licensed activity safely and in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the 
Act and the licence”. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
• 
Paragraph 12(1)(b) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that every 
licensee shall “train the workers to carry on the licensed activity in accordance with the Act, 
the regulations made under the Act and the licence”. 
• 
Paragraph 17(b) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that every 
worker shall “comply with the measures established by the licensee to protect the 
environment and the health and safety of persons, maintain security, control the levels and 
doses of radiation, and control releases of radioactive nuclear substances and hazardous 
substances into the environment”. 
• 
Sub-paragraph 17(c)(i) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that 
every worker shall “promptly inform the licensee or the worker’s supervisor of any situation 
in which the worker believes there may be a significant increase in the risk to the 
environment or the health and safety of persons”. 
• 
Paragraph 17(e) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that every 
worker shall “take all reasonable precautions to ensure the worker’s own safety, the safety of 
the other persons at the site of the licensed activity, the protection of the environment, the 
protection of the public and the maintenance of the security of nuclear facilities and of 
nuclear substances”. 
• 
Paragraph 6(d) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that an application for a 
licence to operate a Class I nuclear facility shall contain “the proposed measures, policies, 
methods and procedures for operating and maintaining the nuclear facility”. 
• 
Paragraph 6(n) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that an application for a 
licence to operate a Class I nuclear facility shall contain “the results that have been achieved 
in implementing the program for recruiting, training and qualifying workers in respect of the 
operation and maintenance of the nuclear facility”. 
• 
Section 38 of the Nuclear Security Regulations states that “every licensee shall develop a 
supervisory awareness program and implement it on an ongoing basis to ensure that its 
supervisors are trained to recognize behavioural changes in all personnel, including 
contractors, that could pose a risk to security at a facility at which it carries on licensed 
activities”. 
2. 
Background 
Worker fatigue is a state of reduced mental or physical performance capability resulting from 
sleep loss, extended wakefulness, phase of the circadian rhythm or workload. As fatigue 
increases, declines occur in many aspects of human performance, especially alertness. Alertness 
is fundamental to many cognitive tasks. Recovery from fatigue, particularly the recovery of 
cognitive function, requires sufficient sleep. 
Work schedules are an important factor when managing fatigue since they set the boundaries for 
the timing and duration of sleep. Key aspects of a work schedule that affect fatigue are night 
work, extended shifts, the number of consecutive shifts, and time off between blocks of shifts. 
Even when complying with limits on hours of work, a worker may be fatigued. Since factors at 
work and outside of work affect fatigue, workers share responsibility with the employer for 
managing fatigue. Programmatic requirements and guidance in this document address a broad 
range of elements necessary for managing fatigue-related risks.  
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
3. 
Programmatic Elements Applicable to the Broad Population 
Licensees shall manage risks associated with fatigue of workers who have the potential through 
their work activities to pose a risk to nuclear safety or security (also referred to as the broad 
population) in accordance with their management system as defined in the licensee’s licensing 
basis. Safety-sensitive positions, which are identified in section 4.1, are a sub-set of the broad 
population.  The following sections specify how the management system’s generic requirements 
apply to managing worker fatigue. 
Licensees shall identify positions in the broad population in their management system’s 
governing documents. 
Guidance 
All activities related to managing worker fatigue should be developed and implemented using a 
management system that meets the requirements of CSA N286, Management system 
requirements for nuclear facilities. [1] 
Licensees may exclude workers from the broad population if they do not have the potential 
through their work activities to pose a risk to nuclear safety or security.  Licensees should have a 
documented rationale to justify the exclusion of workers from the broad population.     
3.1 
Establishing limits on hours of work and recovery periods 
For the broad population of workers, licensees shall document and implement limits on hours of 
work and recovery periods that: 
1. provide sufficient time for sleep daily 
2. restrict consecutive shifts to limit the build-up of sleep debt 
3. provide sufficient time off to allow for recovery from sleep debt 
4. limit average weekly hours as a safeguard against cumulative fatigue 
Licensees shall document the rationale that justifies their limits on hours of work and recovery 
periods, and the rationale shall be based on scientific principles and knowledge. 
Guidance 
Licensees may apply different limits on hours of work and recovery periods to different workers 
in a graded manner commensurate with risk.  
3.2 
Identifying and managing worker fatigue 
Licensees shall establish, implement and maintain a process to identify and manage workers who 
have temporary or ongoing fatigue-related limitations that may make them incapable of 
competently and safely performing their assigned duties. This process shall address: 
1. expectations for self-reporting when workers believe they are too fatigued to competently and 
safely perform their assigned duties  
2. actions for workers to take if they are experiencing a temporary or ongoing circumstance(s) 
or condition(s) that increase their risk of experiencing fatigue at work 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
3. actions for supervisors to take if they believe, through self-reporting or observation, that a 
worker may be unable to competently and safely perform his or her assigned duties because 
of fatigue  
4. expectations related to rest periods that include an opportunity to sleep, if permitted 
5. schedules that allow for a planned period of restorative sleep in appropriate accommodations, 
if permitted 
Guidance 
Licensees should define and implement a range of measures to manage risks associated with 
fatigue, including those to manage the level of fatigue workers experience at work and to reduce 
the likelihood and consequences of fatigue-related errors, such as:  
• 
allowing rest periods or an opportunity to sleep with appropriate conditions defined (for 
example, turnover of duties, acceptable location(s), and duration)  
• 
nurturing an environment that encourages self-reporting when workers believe they are too 
fatigued to perform their duties competently and safely (for example, freedom from reprisal) 
• 
providing a work environment designed to enhance alertness (for example, appropriate 
lighting, temperature, and humidity)  
• 
employing additional supervisory oversight and independent verification when the risk of 
fatigue is highest (for example, during the night shift, near the end of a shift, working beyond 
12 hours) 
• 
scheduling safety-critical tasks outside of peak times for fatigue (especially between the 
hours of 2 a.m. and 6 a.m.) when possible  
• 
rotating workers between tasks of varying cognitive and physical workloads when possible 
3.3 
Authorities, accountabilities and responsibilities 
Licensees shall define and document the authorities, accountabilities, and responsibilities for 
those involved with managing worker fatigue. 
Guidance 
Authorities, accountabilities, and responsibilities should be defined and documented for the 
following: 
1. senior management 
2. supervisors of workers who could pose a risk to nuclear safety or security 
3. workers who could pose a risk to nuclear safety or security 
4. key support positions involved with managing worker fatigue, such as medical, human 
resources, and workforce planning and scheduling personnel 
5. contractor organizations 
3.4 
Training and education 
With respect to managing fatigue, licensees shall ensure that those with authorities, 
accountabilities, and responsibilities for managing worker fatigue receive initial and ongoing 
training commensurate with their authorities, accountabilities, and responsibilities.  
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
Guidance 
Training and education about fatigue and measures for managing risks associated with worker 
fatigue should address the following topics:  
• 
causes, risks and consequences of fatigue (for example, effects of fatigue and circadian 
rhythms on alertness and performance; importance of sleep and strategies to maximize the 
benefits of recovery opportunities; sleep disorders and their treatment; symptoms of fatigue; 
measures to minimize the effects of fatigue; commuting)  
• 
measures for managing worker fatigue (for example, authorities, accountabilities and 
responsibilities for managing worker fatigue and controlling hours of work; process to follow 
when a performance impairment due to fatigue is suspected) 
• 
regulatory requirements related to fatigue and hours of work  
Requirements and guidance for training systems are found in REGDOC-2.2.2, Personnel 
Training. [2] 
3.5 
Control of changes to shift schedules 
Licensees shall control changes to shift schedules, such as modifications to start times or shift 
length.  
After significant changes to shift schedules have been implemented, licensees shall review their 
impact on fatigue levels and nuclear safety and security.   
Guidance 
Before implementing changes to a shift schedule, the proposed schedule should be assessed 
against factors known to affect fatigue. 
Licensees should define and implement a method for monitoring the impact of changes to shift 
schedules on fatigue levels and on nuclear safety and security. 
3.6 
Problem identification and resolution 
Licensees shall identify and resolve problems related to worker fatigue. 
When an act or omission by a worker may have caused or contributed to a safety significant 
incident, licensees shall record the work schedule of workers directly involved, when known, for 
at least one week prior to the incident. These data shall be assessed periodically to determine the 
effectiveness of the limits on hours of work and recovery periods. 
Guidance 
In addition to the requirements related to safety significant incidents, when an act or omission by 
a worker may have caused or contributed to an incident, the incident analysis team should 
consider and record fatigue-related factors of the workers directly involved (for example, work 
schedule; sleep obtained prior to the incident compared to sleep normally obtained; consecutive 
hours awake at the time of the incident) and should determine if performance was consistent with 
the effects of fatigue. Licensees should capture this information as part of the incident report.  
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
3.7 
Assessment and continual improvement 
Licensees shall conduct periodic assessments to:  
1. determine the effectiveness of the management system in managing the risks associated with 
worker fatigue and identify opportunities for continual improvement 
2. verify that staffing levels are sufficient for enabling adherence to limits on hours of work and 
recovery periods 
Licensees shall carry out trend analyses of problems and causes related to fatigue or work 
schedules. 
Guidance 
Licensees should use multiple methods to assess the effectiveness of the management system in 
managing the risks associated with worker fatigue, such as performance indicators, trend 
analyses, internal and external operating experience, benchmarking, self-assessments, 
independent assessments, and worker surveys. 
A licensee’s periodic assessment schedule may include a greater frequency of assessments for 
safety-sensitive positions than for the broad population. 
4. 
Limits on Hours of Work and Recovery Periods Applicable to Safety-Sensitive 
Positions 
4.1 
Identification of safety-sensitive positions 
Licensees shall list all safety-sensitive positions in their governing documents. 
Safety-sensitive positions shall include: 
1. certified workers 
2. the following security personnel: nuclear security officers, onsite nuclear response force 
(NRF) members, and designated non-NRF personnel 
 
In addition, licensees shall perform a risk-informed analysis to identify any other safety-sensitive 
positions.   
Positions that are part of the minimum staff complement at high-power reactor facilities shall be 
considered as safety-sensitive unless documented as not safety-sensitive through the analysis. 
Guidance 
The risk-informed analysis to identify workers who fill safety-sensitive positions should consider 
risks related to the following: 
• 
tasks of the worker during normal and emergency operating conditions  
• 
nature of equipment and material that the worker handles or could handle 
• 
actions assigned to the workgroup that could directly cause or contribute to a significant 
incident or could result in an inadequate response to a significant incident 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
4.2 
Limits on hours of work applicable to safety-sensitive positions 
Hours of work limits in section 4.2 and recovery periods in section 4.3 shall apply to workers 
filling safety-sensitive positions. Limits on hours of work and recovery periods are summarized in 
the tables in the appendix. 
Licensees shall ensure that the hours worked do not exceed the following limits:  
1. 16 hours in a 24-hour period 
2. 28 hours in a 48-hour period  
3. 60 hours in a fixed 7-day period OR 120 hours in a rolling 14-day period 
4. 54 hours per week on average over a fixed period not exceeding 13 weeks OR a rolling 
period not exceeding 18 weeks  
With the exception of shift turnover, all time present at work shall be included when determining 
compliance with the limits on hours of work in section 4.2 and the recovery periods in 
section 4.3. 
Guidance 
As part of the fatigue management provisions, licensees should establish administrative limits 
that prevent workers from consistently working the maximum allowable hours of work. 
A normal work shift should not exceed 12 hours. As far as reasonably practicable, night shifts 
should not extend beyond 12 hours.  
It is acknowledged that the transfer of information and responsibilities between individuals or 
work units during shift turnovers is important for ensuring nuclear safety. For this reason, the 
duration of shift turnover may vary, but should typically be completed within 30 minutes per 
shift.  
Licensees’ governing documents should specify which time periods will be implemented for 
items 3 and 4 in section 4.2.  
Hours of work limits in section 4.2 and recovery periods in section 4.3 are not applicable to 
workers temporarily assigned to a position that is not safety-sensitive for a minimum period of 
two weeks.  A licensee’s governing documents should define the process for managing fatigue 
when transitioning workers between positions that are safety-sensitive and those that are not.   
4.3 
Recovery periods applicable to safety-sensitive positions 
The recovery periods in this section apply to persons working straight day or night shifts or shifts 
that rotate between days and nights. 
A worker shall be given a minimum recovery period of 8 consecutive hours free from work 
between shifts.  
1. For persons working shifts from 8 to 10 hours: 
a. a maximum of 5 consecutive night shifts shall not be exceeded  
b. a minimum recovery period of 48 hours shall follow a block of 4 or more consecutive 
night shifts 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
2. For persons working shifts over 10 hours and up to 12 hours:  
a. a maximum of 6 shifts on consecutive calendar days shall not be exceeded 
b. a maximum of 4 consecutive night shifts shall not be exceeded 
c. if shifts on consecutive calendar days include day and night shifts, a maximum of 
3 consecutive night shifts shall not be exceeded  
d. a minimum recovery period of 72 hours shall follow a block of 3 or more consecutive 
night shifts; where only 2 consecutive night shifts are worked, a minimum recovery 
period of 48 hours shall follow 
Staffing levels shall be sufficient to ensure that training activities, sickness, vacation or staff 
turnover do not lead to non-compliance with limits on hours of work in section 4.2 and recovery 
periods in section 4.3, as far as reasonably practicable. 
Guidance 
A worker should normally be given 11 consecutive hours free from work between shifts. A 
recovery period of 8 hours should be rarely used (for example, if necessary to fill a minimum 
staff complement position; when the recovery period occurs at night when the body’s circadian 
rhythm promotes sleep). 
For persons working shifts from 8 to 10 hours:  
• 
a minimum recovery period of 36 hours should occur in any 7-day period 
• 
the direction of shift rotation should be clockwise 
For persons working shifts over 10 hours and up to 12 hours: 
• 
a normal work schedule should include 3 or fewer consecutive night shifts. 
• 
if day shifts are followed by night shifts on consecutive calendar days, a limit of 2 night 
shifts should apply (for example, 2 day shifts followed by 2 night shifts followed by 
48 hours off) 
• 
the following deviations from recovery periods following a block of consecutive shifts 
may be applied: 
o the minimum recovery period following a block of night shifts in Section 4.3, 2d may 
be reduced by 24 hours when a worker is transitioning to a sequence of classroom 
training on days or when a worker who normally works day shifts works only one 
block of consecutive night shifts 
o to maintain minimum staff complement, the requirement for 72 hours off following a 
block of 3 or more 12-hour night shifts may be reduced to 48 hours off once every 
three months per worker 
o recovery periods following a block of consecutive shifts may be reduced occasionally 
to enable night shift workers to attend important meetings during the day 
Should exceptional circumstances require variance with limits of hours of work in Section 4.2 or 
recovery periods in Section 4.3 for those in safety-sensitive positions, licensees should consult 
Section 4.4: Exceptional circumstances. 
Licensees can propose alternative equivalent limits to those contained in sections 4.2 and 4.3. 
Proposed changes to the limits must demonstrate an equivalent level of safety, must be science-
based, and must be approved by the Commission. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
4.4 
Exceptional circumstances 
Licensees may determine that certain exceptional circumstances warrant exceeding the limits in 
section 4.2 and 4.3 to prevent unreasonable risk to nuclear safety and security. 
1. Licensees shall document and implement measures during exceptional circumstances above 
and beyond those applied during routine operations as per section 3.2, including: 
a. measures to manage the risks associated with fatigue, including to manage the level of 
worker fatigue and to reduce the likelihood and consequences of fatigue-related errors 
b. a process for authorizing and recording exceedances 
2. For exceptional circumstances when workers remain onsite longer than 16 hours, licensees 
shall document and implement measures to manage the risks associated with fatigue, 
including:  
a. provision of sufficient accommodations appropriate for restorative sleep (for example, 
horizontal sleeping surface, darkened environment, minimal intrusive noise) 
b. duty periods and mandatory rest periods that will be provided to enable workers to obtain 
restorative sleep during extended shifts 
c. delays to non-essential maintenance, testing and operations activities 
d. recovery periods following the extended period onsite 
3. The rationale for the measures to be implemented during exceptional circumstances shall be 
based on scientific principles and knowledge. 
Guidance 
For exceptional circumstances when workers remain onsite longer than 16 hours, licensees should 
provide workers with reasonable opportunities to obtain restorative sleep.  Licensees should 
provide workers with at least 8 hours of rest in every 24-hour period.  Rest periods should be 
divided into no more than two periods and, if possible, include time at night when the body’s 
circadian rhythm promotes sleep.  
4.5 
Records 
For workers filling safety-sensitive positions, licensees shall retain records of:  
1. shifts worked  
2. non-compliance(s) with the limits on hours of work and recovery periods, including those that 
occur during exceptional circumstances 
Guidance 
Records of non-compliance(s) should include the date and extent of the non-compliance(s), name 
or unique identifier, position title(s), reason for non-compliance(s) and, if applicable, measures 
implemented to reduce fatigue or the risk of fatigue-related errors. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
Appendix: Hours of Work and Recovery Periods for Safety-Sensitive Positions 
Table 1: Summary of hours of work requirements applicable to safety-sensitive positions from 
Section 4.2 
Time frame 
Limits on hours 
of work 
24 hours  
16 
48 hours 
28 
fixed 7 days OR rolling 14 days 
60 OR 120 
fixed period up to 13 weeks OR 
rolling period up to 18 weeks 
54 (average per week) 
 
Table 2: Summary of minimum recovery period requirements applicable to safety-sensitive positions 
from Section 4.3 
Time frame  
Consecutive 
hours off 
Between shifts 
8 
Recovery periods for shifts from 8 to 10 hours 
Following a block of 4 or more consecutive night shifts 
48 
Recovery periods for shifts over 10 and up to 12 hours 
Following a block of 3 or more consecutive night shifts 
72 
Following a block of 2 consecutive night shifts 
48 
 
Table 3: Summary of limits on the number of consecutive shifts from Section 4.3 
Consecutive shifts  
Number of 
shifts 
Shifts from 8 to 10 hours 
Maximum number of consecutive night shifts 
5 
Shifts over 10 and up to 12 hours 
Maximum number of shifts on consecutive calendar days 
6 
Maximum number of consecutive night shifts 
4 
If shifts on consecutive calendar days include day and night shifts, maximum number 
of consecutive night shifts 
3 
 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
Glossary 
block of consecutive shifts 
Set of consecutive shifts with the same start and end times followed by a minimum recovery period and a 
subsequent set of consecutive shifts. 
broad population 
Population of workers who have the potential through their work activities to pose a risk to nuclear safety 
or security. 
certified 
Certified by the Commission under paragraph 21(1)(i) of the NSCA or by a designated officer authorized 
under paragraph 37(2)(b) of the Act.  
contractor  
An organization or individual providing services to another organization in accordance with agreed-upon 
specifications, terms, and conditions.  
designated non-nuclear response force personnel 
Designated non-nuclear response force personnel are security staff that are authorized under the Public 
Agents Firearms Regulations to possess or have access to prohibited and restricted firearms, items or 
devices on behalf of and under the authority of the CNSC for the purpose of carrying out his or her duties. 
These duties may encompass the storage, transport, handling, maintenance and use of firearms related to 
NRF functions. 
fatigue  
A state of reduced mental or physical performance capability resulting from sleep loss, extended 
wakefulness, phase of the circadian rhythm or workload.  
high-power reactor facilities (also known as high-energy reactor facilities) 
Power production and research reactors greater than 10 MWt. 
high-security site 
A nuclear power plant or a nuclear facility where Category I or II nuclear material is processed, used or 
stored.  
human performance 
The outcomes of human behaviours, functions and actions in a specified environment, reflecting the 
ability of workers and management to meet the system’s defined performance, under the conditions in 
which the system will be employed. 
incident  
Any unintended event, including operating errors, equipment failures, initiating events, accident 
precursors, near misses or other mishaps, or unauthorized act, malicious or non-malicious, the 
consequences or potential consequences of which are not negligible from the point of view of protection 
or safety (IAEA Safety Glossary, 2007). 
licensing basis  
A set of requirements and documents for a regulated facility or activity comprising: 
• 
the regulatory requirements set out in the applicable laws and regulations 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
• 
the conditions and safety and control measures described in the facility’s or activity’s licence and the 
documents directly referenced in that licence 
• 
the safety and control measures described in the licence application and the documents needed to 
support that licence application. 
minimum staff complement  
The minimum number of qualified workers who must be present at all times to ensure the safe operation 
of the nuclear facility and to ensure adequate emergency response capability. 
night shift 
Shift that includes any time at work between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. 
nuclear security officer 
A person whose function is to provide security at a high-security site and to whom an authorization 
referred to in subsection 18(2) of the Nuclear Security Regulations has been issued. 
onsite nuclear response force 
(a) a team of nuclear security officers whose members are 
 
(i) trained in the use of firearms, authorized to carry firearms in Canada and qualified to use them, 
and 
 
(ii) permanently located at a high-security site; or 
(b) a local, provincial or federal police service, a Canadian Forces unit or any other force 
 
(i) under contract to a licensee, 
 
(ii) whose members are trained in the use of firearms, authorized to carry firearms in Canada and 
qualified to use them, and 
 
(iii) whose members are permanently located at a high-security site. 
 
safety-sensitive position 
A position which has a role in the operation, where impaired performance could result in a significant 
incident affecting the environment, the public, the health and safety of workers and others at site, or the 
safety and security of the facility. This includes all workers who are regularly required to rotate through 
or regularly relieve in safety-sensitive positions. 
 
Those who directly supervise the working level positions, or who may perform the same duties or 
exercise the same responsibilities as safety-sensitive positions are deemed to hold safety-sensitive 
positions. 
 
safety significance  
The significance of a situation, event or issue with respect to the impact on meeting the nuclear safety 
objectives as defined by the International Atomic Energy Agency in document SF1, Fundamental Safety 
Principles. In general, a situation, event or issue has safety significance if it denotes a deviation from the 
safety case accepted in the licence, in a direction detrimental to safety, such as but not limited to:  
• reducing margins to (or exceeding) the accepted limits  
• increasing risk to the health, safety and security of persons and the environment  
• impairments (various degrees) of the special safety systems or of the safety functions for accident 
mitigation  
• reduction in defence in depth  
• events causing radioactive releases and spills of hazardous substances, injuries to workers or the public, 
etc.  
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
shift turnover  
Transfer of information and responsibilities between individuals or work units, one of which is relieving 
the other. Shift turnover activities may include, but are not limited to, discussions of the status of plant 
equipment, and the status of ongoing activities, such as extended tests of safety systems and components.  
sleep debt  
The difference between the amount of sleep an individual needs and the amount of sleep that the 
individual actually obtains. 
supernumerary day shifts  
Periodic sequences of eight-hour day shifts that are built into a shift worker’s schedule. 
worker  
A person who performs work that is referred to in a licence.  
Note: This definition applies to workers directly employed by a licensee, as well as to contractors and to 
subcontractors. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
References 
1. CSA Group, CSA N286-12, Management system requirements for nuclear facilities, Mississauga, 
2012. 
2. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, REGDOC-2.2.2, Personnel Training, Ottawa, 2014. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
Additional Information 
The following documents contain additional information related to managing worker fatigue.  
1. CSA Group, CSA Z1600-14, Emergency and continuity management program, Mississauga, 2014. 
2. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, RD-204, Certification of Persons Working at Nuclear Power 
Plants, Ottawa, 2008. 
3. CNSC, G-323, Ensuring the Presence of Sufficient Qualified Staff at Class I Nuclear Facilities - 
Minimum Staff Complement, Ottawa, 2007. 
4. Smiley, A. and C. Rudin-Brown, RSP-0289, Review of Criteria for Assessing Shift Schedules in the 
Nuclear Industry, Ottawa, 2013. 
5. Kulp, K., RSP-0096, Development of a Regulatory Monitoring Program for Shiftwork Systems at 
Canadian Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 1999. 
6. Smiley, A. and N. Moray, INFO-0318, A Review of 12-Hour Shifts at Nuclear Generating Stations, 
Atomic Energy Control Board, Ottawa, 1989. 
7. Lerman, S., et al., “Fatigue Risk Management in the Workplace,” Journal of Occupational and 
Environmental Medicine 54, 2 (2012): 231–58. 
March 2017 
REGDOC-2.2.4, Fitness for Duty: Managing Worker Fatigue 
 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0 Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0 Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0 Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website.  
 
