Management System: 
Safety Culture  
 
 
REGDOC-2.1.2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 2018 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety Culture 
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.1.2  
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2018 
Cat. No. CC172-192/2018E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-26138-6 
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Culture de sûreté 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website. To request a copy of the document in English or 
French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario  K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Fax: 613-995-5086 
Email: cnsc.info.ccsn@canada.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Twitter: @CNSC_CCSN 
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/cnsc-ccsn 
Publishing history 
April 2018           Version 1.0 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
 
 
i 
Preface 
This regulatory document is part of the CNSC’s Management System series of regulatory documents. The 
full list of regulatory document series is included at the end of this document and can also be found on the 
CNSC’s website. 
Over the past few decades, experience in the international nuclear industry and other industries has 
demonstrated the importance of a healthy safety culture in maintaining the safety of workers, the public, 
and the environment. An organization that actively fosters a healthy safety culture can have a powerful 
influence on employee attitudes and behaviours, and consequently on individual and corporate safety 
performance.  
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture, sets out requirements and guidance for fostering a 
healthy safety culture and for conducting safety culture assessments. It does the same for security culture. 
It is important to recognize that both nuclear safety and security and their cultures share the same overall 
objective, which is to limit the risk resulting from nuclear substances and associated facilities. The two 
cultures coexist and reinforce each other.  
 
REGDOC-2.1.2 is intended to form part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity within the 
scope of this document. It is intended for inclusion in licences as either part of the conditions and safety 
and control measures in a licence, or as part of the safety and control measures to be described in a 
licence application and the documents needed to support that application. 
For proposed new facilities: This document will be used to assess new licence applications for Class I 
nuclear facilities and uranium mines and mills. 
Guidance contained in this document exists to inform the applicant, to elaborate further on requirements 
or to provide direction to licensees and applicants on how to meet requirements. It also provides more 
information about how CNSC staff evaluate specific problems or data when they review licence 
applications. Licensees are expected to review and consider guidance; should they choose not to follow it, 
they should explain how their chosen alternate approach meets regulatory requirements.  
For existing facilities: The requirements contained in this document do not apply unless they have been 
included, in whole or in part, in the licence or licensing basis. 
A graded approach, commensurate with risk, may be defined and used when applying the requirements 
and guidance contained in this regulatory document. The use of a graded approach is not a relaxation of 
requirements. With a graded approach, the application of requirements is commensurate with the risks 
and particular characteristics of the facility or activity. 
An applicant or licensee may put forward a case to demonstrate that the intent of a requirement is 
addressed by other means and demonstrated with supportable evidence. 
Important note: Where referenced in a licence either directly or indirectly (such as through licensee-
referenced documents), this document is part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity.  
The licensing basis sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or 
activity, and establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program for that regulated facility or 
activity.  
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
 
 
ii 
Where this document is part of the licensing basis, the word “shall” is used to express a requirement to 
be satisfied by the licensee or licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is 
advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of 
this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 2 
1.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 2 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
............................................................................................................. 2 
1.4 
Relevant national and international standards .................................................................... 4 
1.4.1 
Security culture ...................................................................................................... 5 
2. 
Fostering Safety Culture ...................................................................................................6 
2.1 
Safety culture governance documentation .......................................................................... 6 
2.2 
Ongoing monitoring of safety culture 
................................................................................. 6 
3. 
Safety Culture Assessments ..............................................................................................7 
3.1 
Criteria applicable to safety culture assessment methods 
................................................... 8 
3.2 
Preparing for the safety culture assessment ........................................................................ 9 
3.3 
Plan the assessment 
............................................................................................................. 9 
3.3.1 
Assessment team selection 
................................................................................... 10 
3.3.2 
Internal communications strategy ........................................................................ 11 
3.3.3 
Assessment framework ........................................................................................ 12 
3.3.4 
Assessment method selection .............................................................................. 12 
3.4 
Data collection .................................................................................................................. 12 
3.5 
Data analysis ..................................................................................................................... 12 
3.6 
Assessment report ............................................................................................................. 13 
3.7 
Respond to the assessment and transition to action .......................................................... 13 
Appendix A: Safety Culture Reference Framework ................................................................15 
Appendix B: Safety Culture Maturity Model ...........................................................................17 
Appendix C: Safety Culture Maturity Model Indicators and Specific Behaviours ..............19 
Glossary ........................................................................................................................................22 
References 
.....................................................................................................................................23 
Additional Information ...............................................................................................................25 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
1 
 
Safety Culture 
1. Introduction 
This section provides information for all licensees. 
A healthy safety culture is a key factor in reducing the likelihood of safety-related events and 
mitigating their potential impact, and in continually improving safety performance. All workers, 
from senior managers downwards, have a shared responsibility to ensure that a healthy safety 
culture is a priority.  
The term safety culture is standard terminology in many industries outside the nuclear industry. 
While the CNSC acknowledges that many definitions of safety culture exist, the CNSC defines 
safety culture as the characteristics of the work environment, such as the values, rules, and 
common understandings that influence workers’ perceptions and attitudes about the importance 
that the organization places on safety. This definition is aligned with others being used in the 
nuclear industry, sharing common elements and overall goals. The approach, however, is holistic, 
and not restricted to only occupational health and safety.   
The approach taken in this regulatory document is based upon the following principles: 
Principle 1 Every organization has a safety culture. 
Principle 2 Safety culture is influenced by external and internal factors including all workers. 
Principle 3 Safety culture is complex and changes over time. 
Principle 4 Safety culture needs to be assessed and monitored to achieve the common goal of 
understanding the organization’s safety culture and limiting risk.  
Principle 5 Safety culture assessment and improvement activities are informed by a defined 
framework of key characteristics known to reflect a healthy culture. 
A healthy safety culture is an interpretation of how safety is integrated into everyday work and 
interactions, rather than a program to be managed. It is reinforced in how people, including 
leadership, work together to create a deeper understanding of the culture and its impacts on 
safety. Monitoring to understand safety culture forms the foundation for building systemic safety 
improvements over time. Monitoring may include a wide range of methods, from simple 
workplace observations and interactions to comprehensive assessments of safety culture in larger 
organizations. A mature and continually improving safety culture manifests itself through 
everyday safety-related discussions, decisions and actions. Additional information on 
understanding safety culture can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing Safety 
Culture Assessments, section 2.1 Understanding Culture, Organizational Culture and Safety 
Culture [1]. 
The CNSC defines security culture as the characteristics of the work environment, such as the 
values, rules, and common understandings that influence workers’ perceptions and attitudes about 
the importance that the organization places on security.  
Safety culture and security culture coexist through the shared common objective of limiting risk, 
and they share common goals and techniques for promotion and monitoring activities. In this 
document, “safety culture” denotes safety culture and security culture collectively, except where a 
distinction is made.  
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
2 
 
It is therefore key for all licensees to engage in fostering a healthy safety culture in their 
organizations. 
1.1 
Purpose 
This regulatory document establishes requirements and guidance for fostering and assessing 
safety culture.  
1.2 
Scope 
This document contains requirements and guidance for Class I licensees and uranium mines and 
mills. For all licensees, this document contains useful information; licensees are encouraged to 
use this document to help them learn more about their organizations’ safety culture. This 
document provides more specific requirements and guidance related to safety culture, as an 
elaboration on the management system requirements contained in the CSA standard CSA N286, 
Management system requirements for nuclear facilities [2].  
Nuclear power plants are subject to the requirements of sections 2 and 3, and are recommended to 
use the information and guidance of sections 1, 2, 3 and Appendices A & B.  
Other Class I nuclear facilities and uranium mines and mills are subject to the requirement of 
section 2, and are recommended to use the information and guidance of sections 1, 2, 3 and 
Appendices A & B.  
Class II and nuclear substance licensees have no formal requirements, but are recommended to 
use Appendix C, and the information of sections 1, 2 and 3. 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
The following provisions of the regulations made under the Nuclear Safety and Control Act are 
relevant to this regulatory document: 
• 
Paragraph 3(1)(e) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations (GNSCR) states 
that an application for a licence shall contain “the proposed measures to ensure compliance 
with the Radiation Protection Regulations, the Nuclear Security Regulations and the 
Packaging and Transport of Nuclear Substances Regulations, 2015;” 
• 
Paragraph 3(1)(k) of the GNSCR states that “An application for a licence shall contain the 
following information: the applicant’s organizational management structure insofar as it may 
bear on the applicant’s compliance with the Act and the regulations made under the Act, 
including the internal allocation of functions, responsibilities and authority;” 
• 
Paragraphs 12(1)(a), (b), (c), (f) and (j) of the GNSCR state that “Every licensee shall 
(a) ensure the presence of a sufficient number of qualified workers to carry on the licensed 
activity safely and in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act and the 
licence; 
(b) train the workers to carry on the licensed activity in accordance with the Act, the 
regulations made under the Act and the licence; 
(c) take all reasonable precautions to protect the environment and the health and safety of 
persons and to maintain security of nuclear facilities and of nuclear substances;… 
(f) take all reasonable precautions to control the release of radioactive nuclear substances or 
hazardous substances within the site of the licensed activity and into the environment as a 
result of the licensed activity; … 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
3 
 
(j) instruct the workers on the physical security program at the site of the licensed activity and 
on their obligations under that program;…” 
• 
Paragraphs 17(b), (c) and (e) of the GNSCR state that “Every worker shall… 
(b) comply with the measures established by the licensee to protect the environment and the 
health and safety of persons, maintain security, control the levels and doses of radiation, and 
control releases of radioactive nuclear substances and hazardous substances into the 
environment; 
(c) promptly inform the licensee or the worker’s supervisor of any situation in which the 
worker believes there may be…(i) a significant increase in the risk to the environment or the 
health and safety of persons;… 
(e) take all reasonable precautions to ensure the worker’s own safety, the safety of the other 
persons at the site of the licensed activity, the protection of the environment, the protection of 
the public and the maintenance of the security of nuclear facilities and of nuclear substances.” 
• 
Paragraph 21 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) of the GNSCR state that “Information that concerns any 
of the following, including a record of that information, is prescribed information for the 
purposes of the Act:  
(a) a nuclear substance that is required for the design, production, use, operation or 
maintenance of a nuclear weapon or nuclear explosive device, including the properties of the 
nuclear substance; 
(b) the design, production, use, operation or maintenance of a nuclear weapon or nuclear 
explosive device; 
(c) the security arrangements, security equipment, security systems and security procedures 
established by a licensee in accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act or 
the licence, and any incident relating to security; and 
(d) the route or schedule for the transport of Category I, II or III nuclear material, as defined 
in section 1of the Nuclear Security Regulations.” 
• 
Subparagraph 4(a)(i) of the Radiation Protection Regulations states that “Every licensee shall 
implement a radiation protection program and shall, as part of that program, 
(a) keep the amount of exposure to radon progeny and the effective dose and equivalent dose 
received by and committed to persons as low as is reasonably achievable, social and 
economic factors being taken into account, through the implementation of  
(i) management control over work practices,” 
• 
Subsection 1(1), of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Import and Export Controls Regulations 
(NNIECR) defines various terms: 
Controlled nuclear equipment means the controlled nuclear equipment and the parts and 
components for controlled nuclear equipment referred to in the schedule. 
Controlled nuclear information means the controlled nuclear information referred to in the 
schedule. 
Controlled nuclear substance means a controlled nuclear substance referred to in the 
schedule. 
Transit means the process of being transported through Canada after being imported into and 
before being exported from Canada, in a situation where the place of initial loading and the 
final destination are outside Canada.  
• 
Subsections (2), (3) and (4) of the NNIECR state that  
(2) All controlled nuclear substances are prescribed as nuclear substances for the purpose of 
paragraph (d) of the definition nuclear substance in section 2 of the Act, with respect to the 
import and export of those substances. 
(3) All controlled nuclear equipment is prescribed equipment for the purposes of the Act, 
with respect to the import and export of that equipment. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
4 
 
 
(4) All controlled nuclear information is prescribed information for the purposes of the Act, 
with respect to the import and export of that information, unless it is made public in 
accordance with the Act, the regulations made under the Act or a licence. 
• 
Subsection 1(1) of the Nuclear Security Regulations (NSR) defines various terms: 
physical protection measure means an element or a combination of elements in place at a 
nuclear facility for its protection — or for the protection of nuclear substances at the facility 
— against potential adversaries. 
physical protection system means all of the physical protection measures in place at a nuclear 
facility. 
threat and risk assessment means an evaluation of the adequacy of an existing or a proposed 
physical protection system designed to safeguard against 
(a) intentional acts that could pose a threat to the security of a high-security site; and 
(b) the exploitation of weaknesses in the physical protection measures of a high-security site.  
• 
Paragraph 3 (c) (f) and (g) of the NSR state that  
(3) An application for a licence in respect of Category I or II nuclear material, other than a 
licence to transport, and an application for a licence in respect of a nuclear facility referred to 
in paragraph 2(b) shall contain the following information…: 
(c) a description of the proposed security equipment, systems and procedures; 
(f) the proposed plan and procedures to assess and respond to breaches of security; and 
(g) the current threat and risk assessment. 
• 
Paragraph 3 of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulation states that “An application for a 
licence in respect of a Class I nuclear facility, other than a licence to abandon, shall contain… 
(d) the proposed management system for the activity to be licensed, including measures to 
promote and support safety culture. 
• 
Paragraph 3 of the Uranium Mines and Mills Regulation states that “An application for a 
licence in respect of a uranium mine or mill, other than a licence to abandon, shall 
contain…(b) in relation to the activity to be licenced… 
(v) the proposed management system for the activity, including measures to promote and 
support safety culture. 
1.4 
Relevant national and international standards 
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has identified the need for regulators and 
licensees to address safety culture. The IAEA’s framework that supports safety culture is 
embedded in several safety standards documents and safety guides. Safety culture is reflected 
throughout IAEA Safety Standards Series No. SF-1, Fundamental Safety Principles [3]. This 
document includes principles concerning the licensee’s primary responsibility for safety, the 
integration of safety culture with the management system, and the prevention of accidents 
through the application of defence in depth (SF-1 principles 1, 3, and 8, respectively). SF-1 also 
underscores the importance of integrating safety and security.  
Key principles and elements used in developing this regulatory document are consistent with 
SF-1, as well as national and international standards, guides and practices. In particular, this 
regulatory document complements: 
o CSA standard N286-12, Management system requirements for nuclear facilities [2] 
o the following IAEA publications:  
o Safety Report Series No. 83, Performing Safety Culture Self Assessments [1] 
o GSR Part 1, Government, Legal and Regulatory Framework for Safety [4] 
o GSR Part 2, Leadership and Management for Safety [5] 
o GS-G-3.5, The Management System for Nuclear Installations [6] 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
5 
 
o NS-G-2.4, The Operating Organization for Nuclear Power Plants [7] 
o INSAG-24, The Interface Between Safety and Security at Nuclear Power Plants [8] 
o INSAG-15, Key Practical Issues in Strengthening Safety Culture [9] 
o Safety Reports Series No.11, Developing Safety Culture In Nuclear Activities [10] 
 
1.4.1 
Security culture 
Canada is a signatory to the Amendment to the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear 
Material [11], which obliges member states to apply all Fundamental Principles described 
therein. One of these concerns security culture. 
 
Fundamental Principle F: Security Culture 
All organizations involved in implementing physical protection should give due priority 
to the security culture, to its development and maintenance necessary to ensure its 
effective implementation in the entire organization[11, pg5]. 
 
In IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 7, Nuclear Security Culture, [12] the IAEA has identified 
the need for licensees, regulators, and states to establish an effective nuclear security culture. This 
will provide greater assurance of preventing, detecting, delaying and responding to theft, 
sabotage, unauthorized access, illegal transfer, or other malicious acts involving a nuclear 
substance, prescribed equipment or prescribed information use, storage, or transport.  
As mentioned, security culture and safety culture coexist and mutually reinforce one another. 
Analysis of the characteristics and indicators of both cultures demonstrates significant alignment 
between the two. The differences are few and could be captured within a single embracing culture 
without significant process and material change to that in place to currently enhance safety 
culture.  
 
The combined approach to fostering these cultures in a mutually supporting framework or policy 
is anticipated to result in mutually supporting activities that foster and enhance an inclusive 
culture while reducing duplication of effort. An approach of integration of these cultures provides 
an effective and efficient process which reduces the overall resources required for fostering 
culture and enables a more comprehensive and consistent approach to enhancement of the culture. 
Sharing operational experience and knowledge of safety culture development and enhancement 
methods could assist in enhancing and fostering the security culture characteristics and traits 
within an existing and mature culture model.  
 
In addition, this regulatory document is based in part on the following publications: 
• 
IAEA TECDOC No. 1801, Management of the Interface between Nuclear Safety and 
Security for Research Reactors [13] 
• 
IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 20, Objective and Essential Elements of a State’s Nuclear 
Security Regime [14] 
• 
IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 13, Nuclear Security Recommendations on Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities (INFCIRC/225/Revision 5) [15] 
• 
IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 14, Nuclear Security Recommendations on Radioactive 
Material and Associated Facilities [16] 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
6 
 
2. Fostering Safety Culture 
This section contains requirements and guidance applicable to all Class I facilities, and 
Uranium Mines and Mills. 
 
Licensees shall document their commitment to fostering safety culture in their governing 
documentation. 
This section provides information for all other licensees. 
 
Guidance 
2.1 
Safety culture governance documentation  
Principle 1 reads “Every organization has a safety culture,” which should be reflected in an 
organization’s governing documentation. Licensees are responsible for fostering a healthy safety 
culture through promoting and reinforcing a collective commitment to safety that is responsive to 
the risk and complexity of the licensed activities. To achieve this, licensees should use all 
available avenues, including a reliance on governing documentation (e.g., policies, processes, 
procedures, and manuals) to define and manage safety goals and performance objectives. This 
helps provide context to the requirements concerning safety culture found in CSA standard CSA 
N286, Management system requirements for nuclear facilities [2]. 
 
The highest level of governing documentation should make safety the utmost priority – 
overriding the demands of production and project schedules and forming a basis for promoting a 
healthy safety culture, including a questioning attitude and a commitment to excellence in the 
performance of all activities important to safety. Governing documentation may describe the 
leadership role(s) encompassing the highest levels of responsibility for safety matters, as well as 
areas where workers share safety responsibility. Leaders may use governing documentation to 
demonstrate key safety behaviours to workers, while ensuring workers understand their defined 
safety responsibilities, goals and performance objectives. Promoting and reinforcing a collective 
commitment to safety includes the continual improvement and practical use of all governing 
documentation. 
2.2 
Ongoing monitoring of safety culture 
Principle 4 reads “Safety culture needs to be assessed and monitored to achieve the common goal 
of understanding the organization’s safety culture and limiting risk.”  Ongoing (essentially 
continual) monitoring is a key activity to fostering a healthy safety culture. Monitoring safety 
culture provides management the means as to how safety manifests itself in everyday discussions, 
decisions and actions. Licensees have many processes and activities providing insight on safety 
culture, some of which are listed below. These should be periodically viewed, through the 
licensee’s management review processes, with a safety culture lens, aiming to increase awareness 
of the organization’s safety culture. Where monitoring activities identify improvement 
opportunities, consideration should be given to prioritizing and implementing these 
improvements. 
Examples of safety culture monitoring data sources which management can leverage for 
discussion and analysis include: 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
7 
 
• 
surveys, including topic-based surveys, worker surveys in focused areas, and follow-up 
surveys 
• 
safety-related focus groups, town hall sessions or feedback tools 
• 
opportunities for workers to discuss and reflect on their personal roles and responsibilities for 
safety 
• 
seeking feedback on specific focus areas from workers, management, regulators, contractors 
or stakeholders 
• 
trending and analysis of leading organizational performance indicators, and other 
organizational audits and evaluations 
• 
trending and analysis of operational performance indicators detected through routine 
monitoring 
• 
reflecting on formal and informal dialogue focused on safety between management and other 
workers 
• 
potential for changes in safety culture following significant organizational changes, such as 
change in ownership, structure or responsibilities 
• 
reporting of and responses to near misses, events or incidents 
Additional information on ongoing monitoring of safety culture may be found in NEI 09-07 
Revision1, Fostering a Healthy Nuclear Safety Culture [17]. 
For licensees undertaking safety culture assessments, ongoing monitoring offers a complementary 
method for monitoring safety culture health between safety culture assessments.   For example, 
these monitoring activities can inform future assessments, such as through trending indicators 
from previous safety culture assessments. Additionally, information from monitoring activities 
conducted can be analyzed and understood in the context of safety culture assessment results. For 
example, insight from completed assessments may suggest new monitoring activities, or be used 
to refine existing monitoring activities.  
 
The three-stage safety culture maturity model described in appendix B is a useful tool to initially 
establish a safety culture maturity baseline and to monitor changes over time. Safety culture 
maturity progress can then be tracked with suitable records. 
3. Safety Culture Assessments 
 
This section contains requirements and guidance applicable to Nuclear Power Plants. 
Licensees shall conduct comprehensive, systematic and rigorous safety culture assessments at 
least every five years. 
 
 
This section provides information for all other licensees. 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
8 
 
Guidance 
A safety culture assessment involves systematically gathering, reviewing and analyzing culturally 
relevant data, as well as identifying and implementing improvement actions. This is to promote 
safety, learn about organizational factors affecting safety, and to continually seek an 
understanding of how culture operates within the organization.   
Principle 2 reads “Safety culture is influenced by external and internal factors including all 
workers”. Organizations engaged in complex work involving many interdependent workers and 
processes can benefit from safety culture assessments.  
Principle 3 reads “Safety culture is complex and changes over time.”  Changes in the organization 
can affect the safety culture – assessments should be carried out as operational needs dictate (new 
ownership, governance, structure, responsibilities or new activities such as refurbishment, 
decommissioning, etc.).  
A safety culture assessment provides an opportunity for organizational leaders to actively 
promote and foster a healthy safety culture. Their support for engaging workers in open 
discussions, decisions and actions on safety ensures an environment of continual safety 
improvement. Shared space is a critical aspect of safety culture assessments; these assessments 
depend on the free flow of views and opinions in an environment of trust.  
Information on the concept of shared space, an important consideration in undertaking safety 
culture assessments, can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing Safety Culture 
Assessments, section 2.3 Shared Space: Improving Safety Culture Through Healthy Social 
Interactions [1, pg12-14]. Additional information on safety culture assessments can be found in 
section 3.1 Purpose and Benefits of Safety Culture Assessments [1, pg15-16]. 
3.1 
Criteria applicable to safety culture assessment methods 
Adhering to a set of criteria ensures that safety culture assessments are consistent and subsequent 
findings are reliable over time. The following criteria apply to safety culture assessment 
approaches (the overall means) and methods (the specific data collection and analysis tools). 
Although these are intended for assessments conducted in large organizations, any size or type of 
licensee may use them to develop, improve and refine safety culture assessments. 
Comprehensive 
• 
The assessment approach is used to assess the entire organization, or a range of different job 
positions, departments, demographics and lines of work.  
• 
The assessment approach covers the range of cultural characteristics/traits being assessed.  
• 
The assessment approach uses a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods in order 
to build a comprehensive understanding of the licensee’s safety culture.  
Systematic 
• 
What is to be assessed is clearly described.  
• 
Methods measure what they claim to measure. 
• 
Information obtained from an assessment method is clearly documented to allow traceability 
throughout the analysis.  
• 
The assessment produces a clear interpretation of the organization’s safety culture, based on 
collected data. 
• 
Actions resulting from the assessment are linked to the analysis and the collected data. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
9 
 
Rigorous 
• 
The methods minimize the chance for bias and unwanted subjectivity throughout the stages of 
scope setting, training, data collection, analysis, review and reporting. 
• 
The methods are defensible and are described in sufficient detail so that they can be 
replicated by different individuals and across time.  
• 
The assessment approach yields information that is credible because it is based on collected 
data. 
3.2 
Preparing for the safety culture assessment 
There are different approaches to conducting a safety culture assessment. It may be conducted 
independently by an external organization or contractor or as a self-assessment by workers within 
the organization. A safety culture assessment is generally a hybrid of these two types, using a 
blended team of external participants and workers who represent all areas of the organization.  
Organizations that hire a contractor to conduct the assessment have the advantage of increased 
objectivity over the course of an assessment. Consideration may be given to ensuring that the 
experience and insights gained from the assessment are retained within the organization. While 
self-assessments risk being less objective, they are more adaptable and offer learning and 
development opportunities for workers.  
Additional information can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing Safety Culture 
Assessments section 3.2 Special considerations for Safety Culture Self Assessments [1, pg 17-18]. 
Safety and security are integrated goals for any nuclear facility. Although safety and security 
culture assessment methods are generally similar, a security culture assessment places additional 
emphasis on mitigating the risk (likelihood and consequences) of deliberate malicious acts. As a 
result, the comprehensive safety culture reference framework (Appendix A) has three indicators 
specific to security culture: the belief of a credible threat, employee screening practices and 
ensuring sensitive information is classified and controlled. While safety culture assessments could 
simultaneously assess security culture, licensees may choose to undertake independent 
assessments to assess security culture. 
3.3 
Plan the assessment 
Planning the assessment involves applying the chosen assessment method and associated 
framework, as well as finalizing details of how data will be collected, analyzed, interpreted and 
reported.  
Understanding that safety culture can change over time (Principle #3) will help an organization to 
maintain and improve safety. A maturity model may be used to describe and interpret the 
organization’s safety culture, so it can be monitored and improved (see appendix B). 
The description of the safety culture assessment’s goals should explain how the assessment 
supports organizational objectives. An overview of how the safety culture assessment relates to 
relevant organizational programs and practices (e.g., corrective and preventive action programs, 
managing human performance, communications) should be included.  
The description of the scope can provide a rationale for the organizational areas included in the 
assessment (e.g., departments, functions, workgroups, on site contractors). 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
10 
 
If the current safety culture assessment is not the licensee’s first, planning can include reviewing 
previous safety culture assessments and the resulting improvement plans, to determine how these 
actions have affected the organization’s safety culture. 
An overview of the assessment process can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, 
Performing Safety Culture Assessments sections 4.1 – 4.3, covering Organizational Readiness, 
Application of Shared Space in Safety Culture Assessments, and Process Flow and Steps [1, 
pg19-26].  
Documents related to the planning phase can include organizational context (size, risks, 
complexity) considered in determining the breadth and depth of data collection and analysis, as 
well as an overview of each phase of the assessment including associated timelines. 
3.3.1 
Assessment team selection 
Selection of an appropriate assessment team is essential to ensuring the continual development 
and improvement of the assessment process and outputs. 
The team should be selected to ensure adequate knowledge and expertise of safety culture and the 
organization’s technology. A best practice is to include representatives from another licensee 
organization or industry on the assessment team. Assessors involved in peer audits have more in-
depth industry knowledge, and may also have an advantage relating to interviewees and 
interpreting data with greater objectivity. 
Team members should collectively have knowledge and experience in: 
• 
human factors and behavioural/social sciences 
• 
qualitative and quantitative methods for cultural assessment 
• 
assessments of safety culture 
• 
various functional area specialties (e.g. security, workers both unionized and not unionized as 
applicable, operations, maintenance, corporate office staff, senior management) 
• 
technologies of the organization 
The overall team may reflect a balanced representation of the above, including consideration of 
worker demographics (age, gender, seniority). 
The assessment team lead(s) may be experienced and knowledgeable in safety culture, 
monitoring of safety culture, and assessment and improvement methods. The team lead’s 
responsibilities may include: 
• 
selecting team members and team member training, if necessary 
• 
determining roles and responsibilities of team members 
• 
planning and coordinating the assessment 
• 
liaising with management and leadership (union, senior workers) 
• 
communicating with the organization  
• 
ensuring the organization is fully engaged in the assessment 
• 
supervising the process of the assessment 
• 
implementing measures to monitor and improve the assessment process where necessary 
• 
producing preliminary and final reports  
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
11 
 
 
During the assessment, the team lead(s) may make decisions about all aspects of the assessment 
plan (e.g., management interfaces/engagement, team member roles and training, effective 
application of a safety culture framework and method, reporting of results, and transition to 
actions).  
Additional information on team selection can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, 
Performing Safety Culture Assessments, section 4.4 Team Composition and Competencies and 
section 4,5 Roles and Responsibilities [1, pg 27-30]. 
Documents related to team selection can include rationales of decisions regarding team 
membership.  
 
3.3.2 
Internal communications strategy 
Licensees should develop and implement a communications strategy for the assessment, and 
consider proactively engaging workers and leaders throughout the assessment process. Where 
possible, safety culture assessments can be integrated with licensees’ overall communications 
strategies to ensure timely and consistent messaging. Licensees can consider the timing and 
frequency of communications, potential communication vehicles, and how to tailor messaging to 
specific audiences.  
Communication with internal stakeholders may take place throughout the safety culture 
assessment, and the resulting planning and implementation of improvement initiatives. Senior 
management should promote organization-wide participation in all aspects of the assessment via 
surveys, interviews and other assessment tools.  
For security culture, the communications plan must consider that some information is security 
sensitive; however, for the benefit of greater awareness, all aspects can be shared broadly even if 
this requires some incidents or lessons learned to be generalized.  
A communications strategy can, at the various stages of an assessment and follow-up activities, 
include a summary of the assessment method, findings and improvement plans. The information 
should be shared with the following internal stakeholders to the extent possible: 
• 
workers 
• 
management 
• 
organizational groups with special functions or requirements (e.g., security, health and safety 
committees, union representatives, contractors, etc.) 
 
Licensees can expect and encourage feedback from stakeholders. Feedback can provide insight 
into the culture of the organization, and can be used to refine the communications strategy.  
Additional information on communications throughout the assessment process can be found in in 
IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing Safety Culture Assessments section 4.3 Process Flow 
and Steps, and specifically the results of an assessment in section 7.2 Communicating the Results 
[1, pg19-26, 46-47]. 
Documents related to the communication strategy can include the communications plan. Records 
related to the communications strategy can include the communications themselves. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
12 
 
3.3.3 
Assessment framework 
Principle 5 reads “Safety culture assessment and improvement activities are informed by a 
defined framework of key characteristics known to reflect a healthy culture”. A safety culture 
framework provides a basis for the systematic review of safety culture against a defined set of 
characteristics. It also provides a common vocabulary to facilitate communications, and aids in 
developing improvement plans to address the shared perceptions and attitudes of workers. There 
are several culture frameworks currently in use across a variety of organizations and licensee 
contexts. 
 
Licensees should ensure that the safety culture assessment framework is mapped against the five 
safety culture characteristics (see Appendix A of this document). 
3.3.4 
Assessment method selection 
In determining the assessment method, several factors can be considered, including the 
organization’s size and complexity, and the risks and consequences associated with the licensed 
activity. The assessment can address the shared beliefs and attitudes on safety and security – at all 
levels and functional areas of the organization. Assessments of safety culture may include 
specific language and data-gathering tools tailored to specific topics and workers. 
3.4 
Data collection 
The primary methods used in safety culture assessments are well established social science tools 
being document review, surveys, focus groups, interviews and observations. One key area of this 
work is participant confidentiality. Participant confidentiality is crucial in gaining information 
from participants in safety culture assessments, and the assessment team should take precautions 
(e.g. restrict the number of team members who can access the identities and contributions of 
participants, de-identify the contributions of participants) to assure participants’ information is 
kept confidential. 
Additional information on methods can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing 
Safety Culture Assessments, all of section 5 Methods, which explains the five data collection 
methods, including their limitations and risks [1, pg 30-37]. 
3.5 
Data analysis  
The primary analysis method in safety culture assessments is a thematic analysis. Rather than a 
linear exercise to compile information to build a case, the analysis is iterative, using parallel 
streams of information to explore cultural influences. The focus is to analyze the collected data to 
understand the culture as opposed to exclusively measuring adherence to the framework.   
During the assessment, the team may need to refine its scope in order to identify possible patterns 
that warrant additional attention, data collection and analysis. Emergent themes identified 
throughout the assessment may lead to supplementary analysis and reflection. The assessment 
team should periodically review assessment objectives (such as those listed in section 3.1 of this 
document) to ensure adherence to methodological criteria.  
Additional information on analysis can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, Performing 
Safety Culture Assessments, section 6 Conducting the Analysis and section 6.1 Working with 
Qualitative and Quantitative data [1, pg 38]. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
13 
 
Documents related to the assessment method and associated safety culture framework may 
include a discussion of how the data collection and analysis techniques applied are 
comprehensive, systematic and rigorous.  
3.6 
Assessment report 
An assessment report should provide an overview of results: a summary of the analysis process, 
including general themes as well as the organization’s strengths and opportunities for 
improvement. Assessment findings may concentrate on one specific area or topic, and should be 
based on organization-wide data. A description of the data and analysis can be included with each 
finding. The report can outline the team’s findings, including supporting evidence aligned with 
the selected assessment framework. Any insights that the team can provide on the underlying 
cause of the findings will help develop the improvement plan. 
Additional information on writing the final report can be found in IAEA Safety Report Series 83, 
Performing Safety Culture Assessments, section 7.1 Writing the self-assessment report [1, pg 45-
46]. 
Documents related to summarizing the findings may include the executive summary, a 
description of the assessment process, and the final assessment report. 
3.7 
Respond to the assessment and transition to action 
Licensees should respond to assessment results by developing and implementing an improvement 
plan. This can include an analysis of the assessment results and offer opportunities for 
organizational leaders to reflect on these results. The process of translating assessment findings 
and insights into actions may be integrated into existing programs and processes, such as problem 
identification and resolution systems; corrective and preventive action programs; leadership 
critical reflective conversations about safety culture; safety culture monitoring panels; and other 
organizational improvement processes. 
The improvement plan represents a road map toward the organization’s vision of the desired 
safety culture, and it should contain goals and timelines for achieving them. The licensee may 
articulate or reaffirm this vision in subsequent communications; the characteristics of a healthy 
safety culture can help articulate and refine this vision, which may be compared to the current 
safety culture state based on the assessment. Any gaps will inform management as to where to 
focus the improvement plan, and identify positive characteristics that should be protected and 
fostered. 
Licensees can prioritize improvements based on assessment results, with consideration to the 
potential impact to safety and security, trends from previous assessments, and the unique context 
of their organization and work environment, as well as organization’s vision of the desired safety 
culture. How a licensee chooses improvements following an assessment, and the commitment to 
implementing these improvements, should be consistent with its management system and lead to 
improvements.  
Additional information on the transition into action can be found in in IAEA Safety Report Series 
83, Performing Safety Culture Assessments, section 7.3 Transition to Action [1, pg 47-49]. 
Records on the assessment report and improvement plan may include a discussion of how the 
assessment findings are integrated with safety culture monitoring activities and the organization’s 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
14 
 
processes and practices to improve safety. Specific corrective/preventive actions may be 
described along with the expected results and timelines for implementation. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
15 
 
Appendix A: Safety Culture Reference Framework 
This Appendix provides guidance for all licensees. 
 
The following list is a reference framework for demonstrating a commitment to safety, and describes five 
characteristics of a healthy safety culture. It includes observable and measurable indicators for each safety 
culture characteristic and can help licensees clearly demonstrate how they foster safety culture in their 
organization. The framework is adapted from the GS-G-3.5, The Management System for Nuclear 
Installations [6]; and IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 7, Nuclear Security Culture [11]. Since healthy 
safety and security cultures have similar characteristics and indicators, these are consolidated. Indicators 
that apply only to security culture are marked with an asterisk (*). 
 
Safety is a clearly recognized value 
• 
Resources are allocated as necessary to ensure safety. 
• 
Multiple mechanisms are used to clearly communicate the value of safety in the organization. 
• 
Timely decisions are made that reflect the value and relative priority placed on safety. 
• 
The importance of safety is documented and demonstrated in the operation of the organization. 
• 
The promotion of a healthy safety culture is prevalent throughout all aspects of the management 
system. 
• 
Workers understand that safety, security, and production are closely linked. 
• 
Workers understand that a credible threat to security exists, and acknowledges that nuclear security is 
important*. 
• 
There is a sense of urgency to correct significant safety weaknesses or vulnerabilities. 
 
Accountability for safety is clear 
• 
There are clearly defined roles and responsibilities for all levels and positions in the organization. 
• 
Workers are held accountable for adherence to established policies and procedures. 
• 
Shared safety responsibilities are delegated to individuals and teams with appropriate authority. 
• 
There is a high degree of compliance with, and understanding of, regulatory requirements. 
• 
Complete and accurate information is provided to the CNSC, and other stakeholders as appropriate, in 
a timely and open manner. 
• 
Workers demonstrate a commitment to safety throughout the organization and an understanding of 
how they contribute to safety goals. 
• 
Workers understand how their roles and interfaces contribute to maintaining safety. 
 
A learning organization is built around safety 
• 
Lessons learned from experiences internal and external to the organization, including successes and 
challenges, are used as a basis for continual improvement. 
• 
Safety culture assessments, including self-assessments are used to improve performance. 
• 
Processes exist to identify and correct problems in a timely manner, and to develop, implement, and 
measure the effectiveness of corrective and preventive actions. 
• 
Various training methods are used to maintain and improve professional and technical competence of 
members of the organization. 
• 
Safety performance indicators are continually developed, tracked, evaluated and acted on. 
• 
Workers are encouraged and recognized for reporting concerns or suspicions, are free from reprisal, 
and feel that they have been heard when they voice issues. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
16 
 
• 
A questioning attitude is maintained by all members of the organization to constantly challenge the 
safety of day-to-day activities. 
• 
There is systematic development of individual competencies. 
• 
There is an appreciation throughout the organization for diversity of opinion. 
• 
Lessons learned are shared with domestic and international partners. 
 
Safety is integrated into all activities in the organization 
• 
Documentation and processes, from planning to implementation and review, are complete and 
followed in accordance with management system requirements. 
• 
Classification and control measures are implemented to protect sensitive information*. 
• 
Safety performance indicators are continually tracked, trended and evaluated in order to monitor 
safety; ineffective performance indicators are refined and improved to ensure they continually reflect 
the health of the licensee’s safety culture. 
• 
Documented screening processes match the risks and threats associated with the specific employment 
roles and responsibilities*. 
• 
Workers have the necessary knowledge of work processes and adhere to them. 
• 
Workers are involved in risk assessment and decision-making processes. 
• 
Workers are empowered to identify and address issues related to safety matters. 
• 
There are good housekeeping practices, well maintained materials and equipment, and good working 
conditions in place. 
A safety leadership process exists in the organization 
• 
All workers are involved and motivated in promoting a healthy safety culture. 
• 
Managers are visible and actively involved in both preventive and reactive safety-related activities. 
• 
Change management processes are in place and are followed to achieve orderly transitions. 
• 
Collaboration, mutual respect, safety conscious behaviour and teamwork are encouraged, supported 
and recognized. 
• 
Commitment to safety is evident at all levels of the organization. 
• 
The impact of informal leaders on safety culture is recognized and leveraged to continually improve 
safety culture. 
• 
There are clear expectations and policies to support open communications. 
• 
Managers communicate clear expectations for performance in areas that affect safety. 
• 
A proactive and long-term approach to safety is demonstrated in decision making. 
• 
Managers do not abuse authority to circumvent safety or security. 
• 
Managers seek continual improvement in security and work to prevent complacency from 
compromising overall safety objectives. 
 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
17 
 
Appendix B: Safety Culture Maturity Model 
This appendix provides guidance for all licensees. 
 
Understanding how safety culture changes over time, both positively and negatively, is essential to 
fostering safety culture. The safety culture maturity model presented here, as well as the associated 
indicators in Appendix C, have been adapted from the following IAEA publications: 
• 
IAEA-TECDOC No. 1329, Safety Culture in Nuclear Installations: Guidance for Use in the 
Enhancement of Safety Culture [18] 
• 
INSAG-15, Key Practical Issues in Strengthening Safety Culture [9] 
• 
Safety Series Report No.11, Developing Safety Culture in Nuclear Activities – Practical Suggestions 
to Assist Progress [10] 
Note that specific activities or behaviours within an organization, group or team will often fit into more 
than one stage depending on the specific indicators used. Organizations, groups, or teams may fluctuate 
between these stages over time.  
The three stage descriptive safety culture maturity model below can be also used to assess security culture 
maturity, so that it can be monitored and improved. 
Stage 1: Requirement-driven 
Safety is primarily reactive and driven by formal rules and management direction.  
Safety is viewed principally as a technical and procedural issue related to worker safety. Adherence to 
established rules and externally imposed regulations become the overriding reasons for safety in the 
performance of work. Procedural violations are understood primarily as individual worker issues as 
opposed to an outcome of organizational processes. Most workers believe that safety is primarily a 
responsibility of management or a designated authority, and that safety requirements and procedures are 
generally imposed upon them by others. 
Stage 2: Goal-driven 
Good safety performance becomes an organizational objective and is dealt with primarily in terms 
of safety goals. 
There are processes and procedures for achieving safety goals. These processes are grounded in clear 
organizational objectives, which describe how specific organizational values and goals relate directly to 
safety. Improvement initiatives are administered and monitored by suitably qualified and experienced 
persons, while workers have the option to contribute to improvements in safety performance. Safety 
targets are monitored for effectiveness and strengthened over time, and safety goals are systematically 
integrated across all areas. It is understood that worker performance depends on effective organizational 
systems. 
Stage 3: Continually improving 
Safety is seen as a continually improving and proactive process, beginning with all workers sharing 
a clear vision of and value for safety. 
All workers, including managers and contractors are personally and actively involved in enhancing safety 
throughout the organization. Everyone has a clear understanding of safety-related requirements and how 
their own responsibilities contribute to achieving and sustaining enhancements to safety in their everyday 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
18 
 
tasks. Complacency towards risks and threats is identified and eliminated through attention to process 
safety, and all workers share a questioning attitude. 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
19 
 
Appendix C: Safety Culture Maturity Model Indicators and Specific Behaviours 
This appendix provides information for Class II and Nuclear Substances licensees. 
The following table lists indicators and describes specific behaviours related to the three stages of 
maturity of an organization’s safety culture. The sources for this table are explained in the introductory 
paragraph of Appendix B. 
Indicator 
Stage 1: 
Requirement-driven 
Stage 2: 
Goal-driven 
Stage 3: 
Continually improving 
Planning 
Problems are not 
anticipated, and the 
licensee reacts to each 
problem as it occurs. 
The licensee concentrates 
primarily on day-to-day 
matters, with limited long-
term focus on building 
value through safety. 
The licensee acts strategically 
with a focus on the longer term 
as well as awareness of the 
present. It seeks to anticipate 
problems and deal with their 
causes before they happen. 
Communication 
and teamwork 
Communication between 
individuals and 
departments is poor. 
Collaboration between 
departments and functional 
areas is not encouraged. 
Management encourages 
cross-departmental and 
cross-functional teams and 
communication. 
Senior managers function as 
a team and coordinate 
departmental and functional 
decisions. 
Workers recognize and 
demonstrate the need for 
collaboration between 
departments. They receive 
management support, 
recognition and resources 
needed to collaborate. 
Response to 
errors 
Most mistakes are hidden 
by work-arounds. Only 
mistakes with severe 
consequences are identified 
and are blamed on workers 
for their failure to comply 
with rules. 
Management’s approach to 
mistakes is to put more 
controls in place via 
procedures and retraining; 
blaming workers is less 
prevalent. 
Almost all mistakes are 
viewed in terms of work 
process variability. It is more 
important to the licensee to 
understand what has happened 
than to find someone to blame; 
this understanding is used to 
modify work processes and 
reinforce worker perceptions. 
Role of 
management 
Management is seen 
primarily as endorsing the 
rules, pushing workers, and 
expecting results. 
Management’s role is seen 
as applying management 
techniques. 
Coaching workers to improve 
safety performance is a part of 
management’s role. 
Management is accountable 
for modelling continual safety 
improvements. 
Learning 
There is little listening to or 
learning from safety-
related experience inside or 
outside the organization. A 
defensive posture is 
assumed in the face of 
constructive criticism. 
The licensee is somewhat 
open to learning from other 
organizations, especially 
techniques and best 
practices. 
Learning from others both 
inside and outside the 
organization is valued; time is 
made available and devoted to 
adapting such knowledge to 
improve safety performance. 
Value of safety 
(“safety-
production 
balance”) 
Safety is viewed as a 
required nuisance. 
Short-term profit or 
productivity goals are seen 
as all-important and often 
take priority over safety. 
Safety is thought to imply 
higher cost and reduced 
production. 
Safety and production are seen 
as interdependent. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
20 
 
Indicator 
Stage 1: 
Requirement-driven 
Stage 2: 
Goal-driven 
Stage 3: 
Continually improving 
Stakeholder 
relationships 
Regulators, suppliers, and 
contractors are treated 
cautiously or in an 
adversarial manner. 
The licensee’s relationship 
with regulators, suppliers, 
and contractors are kept 
distant rather than close; 
there is a cautious approach 
where trust must be earned. 
Collaborative relationships are 
developed between the 
licensee and regulators, 
suppliers, customers, and 
contractors. 
Value of 
diversity 
Workers are viewed as 
“system components” who 
are defined and valued 
solely in terms of what they 
produce. 
Diversity is seen as a 
weakness. 
Diversity is acknowledged 
as important, but rarely 
exploited. 
Diversity is used 
intermittently in decision-
making. 
Workers are respected and 
valued for their contribution to 
overall performance and for 
their knowledge of safety as 
applied. 
Diversity in opinions is sought 
and embraced. 
Adherence to 
processes 
There is little or no 
awareness of work or 
business processes. 
Expectations are not put in 
writing and are often 
assumed. 
There is a growing 
awareness of the impact of 
influence of culture in the 
workplace.  
It is not understood why 
added controls do not yield 
the expected results in 
safety performance.  
Expectations are written 
and adherence is expected. 
Workers believe in and follow 
work processes in the 
organization, and help 
managers to oversee them. 
Conflict 
management 
Dissenters are punished for 
their viewpoints. 
There is an adversarial 
relationship between 
management and other 
workers. 
Dissenters are tolerated but 
not encouraged. 
Conflict is seen as 
disturbing, and is 
discouraged in the name of 
teamwork. 
 
Questions are encouraged and 
dissenters’ viewpoints are 
appreciated. 
Conflict is recognized, and it is 
addressed by finding mutually 
beneficial solutions 
Management and workers have 
a respectful and supportive 
relationship. 
Systems view 
Workers perform in 
isolation; “not my 
problem” is commonly 
heard. 
Workers are cognizant of 
how their role and tasks 
performed affect the 
organization. 
 
Workers are fully aware of 
broader organizational goals 
and how they contribute to 
them. 
Decisions are made in the full 
context of their safety impact 
on work or business processes, 
as well as on departments and 
overall safety performance. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
21 
 
Indicator 
Stage 1: 
Requirement-driven 
Stage 2: 
Goal-driven 
Stage 3: 
Continually improving 
Performance 
management 
Performance incentives 
are not aligned with safety 
and security goals. 
Workers are rewarded for 
obedience and what they 
produce and deliver, 
regardless of long-term 
consequences. 
Individual performance 
incentives are aligned with 
attaining safety and 
security goals. 
It is important to meet or 
exceed short term 
productivity goals; workers 
are rewarded for exceeding 
goals, regardless of the 
long-term results or 
consequences. 
Performance incentives – both 
individual and collective – are 
aligned with attaining safety 
and security goals. 
Short-term performance is 
measured and analyzed so that 
changes can be made to 
improve long-term 
performance. 
The licensee rewards not only 
those who produce, but also 
those who support others’ 
work and the achievement of 
organizational goals, 
including safety. Workers are 
also rewarded for improving 
processes as well as results. 
Feedback 
Feedback is rarely given. 
Feedback is given and 
improvement is 
consequently expected, 
regardless of context. 
Feedback is routine and it 
becomes typical to use it to 
make improvements. 
Training 
Training is understood as 
an imposition and 
impediment to getting 
work done. 
Training is understood as a 
necessity. 
 
Training is understood as an 
investment. 
 
 
 
 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
22 
 
Glossary 
For definitions of terms used in this document, see REGDOC-3.6, Glossary of CNSC Terminology, which 
includes terms and definitions used in the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and the regulations made under 
it, and in CNSC regulatory documents and other publications. REGDOC-3.6 is provided for reference and 
information. 
learning organization  
A work environment where people continually build on their capability to reach their goals, where new 
and challenging ways of interacting and behaving are encouraged in order to meet future organizational 
challenges, and where everyone has the opportunity to make sense of their work together. 
safety culture assessment  
A periodic evaluation of safety culture using a defined framework and method for data collection, 
analysis, interpretation and reporting. 
security culture  
The characteristics of the work environment, such as the values, rules, and common understandings that 
influence workers’ perceptions and attitudes about the importance that the organization places on security. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
23 
 
References 
1. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), IAEA Safety Report Series No. 83 Performing Safety 
Culture Self Assessments, Vienna, 2016. 
2. CSA Group, N286-12, Management System Requirements for Nuclear Facilities, Mississauga, 2012. 
3. IAEA, IAEA Safety Standards Series No. SF-1, Fundamental Safety Principles, Vienna, 2006. 
4. IAEA, IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GSR Part 1, Government, Legal and Regulatory 
Framework for Safety, Vienna, 2010. 
5. IAEA, IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GSR Part 2, Leadership and Management for Safety, 
Vienna, 2016. 
6. IAEA, IAEA Safety Standards Series No. GS-G-3.5, The Management System for Nuclear 
Installations, Vienna, 2009. 
7. IAEA, IAEA Safety Standards Series No. NS-G-2.4, The Operating Organization for Nuclear Power 
Plants, Vienna, 2001. 
8. IAEA, International Nuclear Safety Group report INSAG-24, The Interface Between Safety and 
Security at Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 2010. 
9. IAEA, International Nuclear Safety Group report INSAG-15, Key Practical Issues in Strengthening 
Safety Culture, Vienna, 2002. 
10. IAEA, IAEA Safety Series Report No.11, Developing Safety Culture in Nuclear Activities – Practical 
Suggestions to Assist Progress, Vienna, 1998. 
11. IAEA, IAEA Information Circular 274 Rev. 1 Mod. 1 Amendment to the Convention on the Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material, Vienna, 2016. 
12. IAEA, IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 7, Nuclear Security Culture, Vienna, 2008. 
13. IAEA, IAEA-TECDOC No. 1801, Management of the Interface between Nuclear Safety and Security 
for Research Reactors, Vienna, 2016. 
14. IAEA, IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 20, Objective and Essential Elements of a State’s Nuclear 
Security Regime, Vienna, 2013. 
15. IAEA, IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 13, Nuclear Security Recommendations on Physical 
Protection of Nuclear Material and Nuclear Facilities (INFCIRC/225/Revision 5), Vienna, 2011. 
16. IAEA, IAEA Nuclear Security Series No. 14, Nuclear Security Recommendations on Radioactive 
Material and Associated Facilities, Vienna, 2011.  
17. National Energy Institute NEI 09-07 Revision 1 Fostering a Healthy Nuclear Safety Culture, 
Washington DC, 2014. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
24 
 
18. IAEA, IAEA-TECDOC No. 1329, Safety Culture in Nuclear Installations: Guidance for Use in the 
Enhancement of Safety Culture, Vienna, 2002. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
25 
 
Additional Information 
1. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, History of Discussion paper DIS-12-07, Safety Culture for 
Nuclear Licensees, Ottawa, 2013. 
2. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), IAEA-TECDOC No. 1707, Regulatory Oversight of 
Safety Culture in Nuclear Installations, Vienna, 2013. 
3. IAEA, (draft) technical guidance, Enhancing nuclear security in organisations associated with 
nuclear and/or radioactive material. 
4. World Association of Nuclear Operators, PL 2013-1, Traits of a Healthy Nuclear Safety 
Culture, London, 2013. 
5. Nuclear Quality Standard Association, NSQ-100 Guidelines: Section B – Safety Culture, 2016. 
6. IAEA, IAEA Nuclear Security Series technical guidance No. 28-T, Self-Assessment of Nuclear 
Security Culture in Facilities and Activities, Vienna, 2017. 
April 2018 
REGDOC-2.1.2, Safety Culture 
 
 
26 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
3.6  
Glossary of CNSC terminology 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website. 
 
