Fitness for Service 
Aging Management 
 
 
REGDOC-2.6.3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2014 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fitness for Service: Aging Management 
Regulatory Document REGDOC-2.6.3 
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2014 
PWGSC catalogue number CC172-104/2014E-PDF 
ISBN 978-1-100-23345-1  
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Aptitude fonctionnelle : Gestion du vieillissement 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website at nuclearsafety.gc.ca. To request a copy of the 
document in English or French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Facsimile: 613-995-5086 
Email: info@cnsc-ccsn.gc.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Publishing history 
March 2014 
 
Version 1.0 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
 
Preface 
This regulatory document is part of the CNSC’s Fitness for Service series of regulatory documents, which 
also covers reliability and maintenance programs for power reactor facilities. The full list of regulatory 
document series is included at the end of this document and can also be found on the CNSC’s website at 
nuclearsafety.gc.ca/eng/acts-and-regulations/regulatory-documents 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management, sets out the requirements of the CNSC for managing aging of 
structures, systems and components (SSCs) of a power reactor facility. It also provides guidance as to 
how these requirements may be met. This document replaces RD-334, Aging Management for Nuclear 
Power Plants, which was published in June 2011. 
Aging management is the set of engineering, operational, inspection and maintenance actions that control, 
within acceptable limits, the effects of physical aging and obsolescence of SSCs that occur over time or 
with use. An aging management program or plan is a set of policies, processes, procedures, arrangements 
and activities for managing the aging of SSCs of a reactor facility. Effective aging management ensures 
that required safety functions are reliable and available throughout the service life of the facility, in 
accordance with the licensing basis. 
This document is intended to form part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity. It is 
intended for inclusion in licences as either part of the conditions and safety and control measures in a 
licence, or as part of the safety and control measures to be described in a licence application and the 
documents needed to support that application. 
 
 
Important note: Where referenced in a licence either directly or indirectly (such as through 
licensee-referenced documents), this document is part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or 
activity.  
The licensing basis sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or 
activity and establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program for that regulated facility or 
activity.  
Where this document is part of the licensing basis, the word “shall” is used to express a requirement to 
be satisfied by the licensee or licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is 
advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of 
this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
 
i 
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
............................................................................................................. 1 
1.4 
International standards 
........................................................................................................ 2 
2. 
General Concepts ...............................................................................................................3 
2.1 
Aging and obsolescence of structures, systems and components ....................................... 3 
2.2 
Systematic and integrated approach to aging management ................................................ 4 
3. 
Proactive Strategy for Aging Management .....................................................................6 
3.1 
Design ................................................................................................................................. 7 
3.2 
Fabrication, construction, and installation .......................................................................... 9 
3.3 
Commissioning ................................................................................................................... 9 
3.4 
Operation .......................................................................................................................... 10 
3.5 
Decommissioning ............................................................................................................. 13 
4. 
Integrated Aging Management 
.......................................................................................13 
4.1 
Organizational arrangements for effective aging management ........................................ 14 
4.2 
Data collection and record-keeping system to support aging management 
...................... 14 
4.3 
Screening and selection of structures, systems and components ...................................... 15 
4.4 
Evaluations for aging management 
................................................................................... 16 
4.5 
Condition assessments ...................................................................................................... 19 
4.6 
SSC-specific aging management plans 
............................................................................. 19 
4.7 
Management of obsolescence ........................................................................................... 20 
4.8 
Interfaces with other supporting programs ....................................................................... 21 
4.9 
Implementation of aging management programs.............................................................. 21 
4.10 
Review and improvement ................................................................................................. 22 
Appendix A: Attributes of an Effective Aging Management Plan ..........................................23 
Appendix B: Sample Methodology for Aging Evaluation 
........................................................24 
 
 
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
 
Glossary ........................................................................................................................................25 
References 
.....................................................................................................................................29 
Additional Information ...............................................................................................................30 
 
 
 
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Aging Management 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
Purpose 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management, sets out the requirements of the CNSC for managing the 
aging of structures, systems and components (SSCs) of a power reactor facility. Guidance is also 
provided as to how these requirements may be met. 
Managing the aging of a reactor facility means to ensure the availability of required safety 
functions throughout the facility’s service life, with consideration given to changes that occur 
over time and with use. This requires addressing both physical aging and obsolescence of SSCs 
where this can, directly or indirectly, have an adverse effect on the safe operation of the reactor 
facility. 
This document is intended for use by licensees and applicants in establishing, implementing and 
improving aging management (AM) programs and plans for reactor facilities. 
1.2 
Scope 
Aging Management sets requirements to provide assurance that aging management is 
appropriately and proactively considered in the different phases of a reactor facility’s lifecycle. 
The lifecycle phases can apply to individual SSCs as well as the entire reactor facility. Specific 
requirements are also provided for establishment, implementation and improvement of AM 
programs and plans through application of a systematic and integrated approach. 
This document provides a framework within which codes and standards can be applied to provide 
assurance that physical aging and obsolescence of SSCs are effectively managed. 
Where appropriate, this document may be applied to other nuclear facilities, with due 
consideration of the differences compared to those of a power reactor facility in hazard potential 
and complexity of affected systems. 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
The following provisions of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA) and the regulations 
made under it are relevant to this document: 
• 
Subsection 24(4) of the NSCA states that “No licence shall be issued, renewed, amended or 
replaced – and no authorization to transfer one given - unless, in the opinion of the 
Commission, the applicant or, in the case of an application for an authorization to transfer the 
licence, the transferee (a) is qualified to carry on the activity that the licence will authorize 
the licensee to carry on, and (b) will, in carrying on that activity, make adequate provision for 
the protection of the environment, the health and safety of persons and the maintenance of 
national security and measures required to implement international obligations to which 
Canada has agreed” 
 
1 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
• 
Paragraph 3(1)(k) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states that “an 
application for a licence shall contain the following information:... (k) the applicant’s 
organizational management structure insofar as it may bear on the applicant’s compliance 
with the Act and the regulations made under the Act, including the internal allocation of 
functions, responsibilities and authority” 
• 
Paragraphs 12(1)(c) and (f) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations state that 
“every licensee shall (c) take all reasonable precautions to protect the environment and the 
health and safety of persons and to maintain security of nuclear facilities and nuclear 
substances;” and “(f) take all reasonable precautions to control the release of radioactive 
nuclear substances or hazardous substances within the site of the licensed activity and into the 
environment as a result of the licensed activity” 
• 
Paragraphs 6(d), (m), and (n) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations state that “an 
application for a licence to operate a Class I nuclear facility shall contain”, in addition to 
other information: 
“(d) the proposed measures, policies, methods and procedures for operating and maintaining 
the nuclear facility;” 
“(m) the proposed responsibilities of and qualification requirements and training program for 
workers, including the procedures for the requalification of workers;” 
“(n) the results that have been achieved in implementing the program for recruiting, training 
and qualifying workers in respect of the operation and maintenance of the nuclear facility” 
• 
Paragraphs 14(2)(a) and (c) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that “every 
licensee who operates a Class I nuclear facility shall keep a record of (a) operating and 
maintenance procedures” and “(c) the results of the inspection and maintenance programs 
referred to in the licence” 
• 
Subsection 14(4) of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations states that” Every person who 
is required by this section to keep a record referred to in paragraph (2)(a) to (d) or (3)(a) to 
(d) shall retain the record for 10 years after the expiry date of the licence to abandon issued in 
respect of the Class I nuclear facility.” 
1.4 
International standards 
This document is consistent with the philosophy and technical content of modern codes and 
standards. In particular, this regulatory document is based in part on the following international 
publications: 
• 
Ageing Management for Nuclear Power Plants, Safety Guide NS-G-2.12 from the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) [1] 
• 
Safe Long Term Operation of Nuclear Power Plants, Safety Report Series No. 57, from the 
IAEA [2] 
• 
Glossary of Nuclear Power Plant Ageing from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD), Nuclear Energy Agency [3] 
 
2 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
2. 
General Concepts 
2.1 
Aging and obsolescence of structures, systems and components  
Guidance 
The SSCs of a reactor facility experience two kinds of time-dependent changes: 
• 
physical aging, in which the physical and/or performance characteristics of SSCs degrade 
with time or use  
• 
technology aging or obsolescence, in which SSCs become out-of-date relative to current 
knowledge, standards and technology  
Over time, and if not properly managed, physical aging can reduce the ability of a structure, 
system or component to perform its safety functions within the limits and specifications assumed 
in the design basis and safety analysis. Several aging mechanisms can combine synergistically to 
cause unexpected or accelerated aging effects, or premature failure of a component or structural 
element. The aggregate of multiple degraded components or elements can significantly degrade 
the safety performance of a system or structure. For instance, while individual degraded 
components might meet their respective fitness-for-service criteria, the combined effect of all the 
multiple degraded components could still result in unacceptable safety performance of a system 
or facility. 
Reactor facility safety can also be affected if obsolescence of SSCs is not identified and corrected 
before associated declines occur in their reliability or availability. This is more likely to apply to 
systems and components (particularly instrumentation and control) rather than the main structural 
elements of a facility (although there are examples of the latter, such as concrete expansion 
anchors). SSCs at risk of obsolescence need to be identified to ensure that an adequate supply of 
spare parts is available until an appropriate solution is found. The solution will depend on the 
particular circumstances, but may involve providing alternative components or items of 
equipment that can carry out the same safety duty. It could also involve redesigning the facility to 
remove the need for the obsolescent system or components. 
Physical aging and obsolescence of SSCs can lead to increased probability of failure or 
common-cause failures, as well as reduced defence in depth. Other consequences may include:  
• 
the need to de-rate the reactor power to maintain safety margins 
• 
forced or unplanned outages 
• 
significantly extended or more frequent maintenance outages 
• 
additional inspections/monitoring of corrective maintenance and repairs 
• 
increase in dose to the associated workers 
• 
or, in extreme cases, the premature shutdown of a facility 
Accordingly, both physical aging and obsolescence of SSCs in reactor facilities should be 
understood and managed effectively and proactively at each stage of the lifecycle of a reactor 
facility and its SSCs. This should begin with design, fabrication and construction and 
commissioning, and continue through operation (including extended or long-term operation, and 
during any extended shutdowns) and during decommissioning. Particular attention should be paid 
to aging phenomena that might affect the availability of SSCs that, directly or indirectly, have an 
adverse effect on the safe operation of the reactor facility. Attention should also be paid to aging 
effects on SSCs that do not have safety functions, but whose failure could prevent safety-related 
 
3 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
SSCs from performing their intended functions for design-basis accidents, or that should be relied 
upon for design extension conditions. Specific requirements for the different lifecycle phases are 
provided in section 3.0. 
2.2 
Systematic and integrated approach to aging management 
Guidance 
Effective aging management uses a systematic approach providing an integrated framework for 
coordinating all supporting programs and activities associated with the understanding, control, 
monitoring and mitigation of aging effects at the facility. This approach (see figure 1) is an 
adaptation of Deming’s “PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT” cycle related to the aging management of an 
SSC1 : 
1. Effective aging management of a system, structure or component relies upon an 
understanding of how it ages. This understanding involves consideration of the design basis 
(including applicable codes and standards), safety analysis, safety functions, design and 
fabrication, materials, operation and maintenance history, generic and facility-specific 
operating experience, relevant research results, and identification of potential obsolescence 
concerns. 
2. The PLAN activity involves coordinating, integrating, and modifying existing programs and 
activities that relate to managing the aging and obsolescence of a system, structure or 
component, and if necessary, developing new programs.  
3. The DO activity is the minimization of expected degradation of a system, structure or 
component through its prudent operation or use in accordance with operating procedures and 
technical specifications. 
4. The CHECK activity is the timely detection and characterization of significant degradation 
through inspection and monitoring of a structure or component, and the assessment of 
observed degradation to determine the type and timing of corrective actions required. 
5. The ACT activity is the timely mitigation and correction of component degradation through 
appropriate maintenance and design modifications, including component repair and 
replacement of a structure or component. 
This process relies on the continuous improvement of an aging management program, based on 
improved understanding of component aging and on the results of self-assessment and peer 
reviews. The information obtained through this approach provides important inputs to existing 
facility programs, such as maintenance and operations. 
In practice, effective aging management requires the involvement and support of many internal 
and external organizations, and essential facility programs and processes. Examples include: 
• 
deterministic safety analysis 
• 
probabilistic safety assessment 
• 
design, engineering change control 
• 
periodic and in-service inspection programs  
• 
equipment reliability 
• 
maintenance programs 
• 
environmental qualification programs 
1 IAEA Safety Report Series No. 57, Safe Long Term Operation of Nuclear Power Plants[2] 
 
4 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
• 
system health monitoring programs 
• 
operating procedures, chemistry programs 
• 
operating experience, significant events analysis and research programs 
See the References section, items 4–18, for applicable CNSC regulatory documents and CSA 
Group standards. While each of these facility programs and processes contribute to aging 
management, this is usually not their primary purpose or focus; none of these programs or 
processes, provide a complete program or process for managing the aging of SSCs. 
Figure 1: A systematic and integrated approach to aging management [2]  
 
Detecting and assessing aging effects
  
 
 
 
 
1. Understanding aging of a structure/
component
Key to effective aging management based on 
the following information:
3. Operation/use of a 
structure/component
Managing aging mechanisms
5. Maintenance of a structure/ 
component
Managing aging effects
• Document regulatory requirements and 
safety criteria
• Document relevant activities
• Describe coordination mechanisms
• Improve effectiveness of aging management 
based on current understanding, self-assessment 
and peer reviews
• Materials and material properties, fabrication 
methods
• Stressors and operating conditions
 
Aging mechanisms
• Sites of degradation
• Consequence of aging degradation and failures
• R&D results
• Preventive maintenance
Corrective maintenance
• Spare parts management
• Replacement
• Maintenance history
 
 
             
 
           
 
• Testing and calibration
Pre-service and in-service inspection
• Surveillance
Leak detection, vibration monitoring, etc.
• Assessment of functional capability/fitness for 
service
Record keeping
4. Inspection, monitoring and 
assessments of a structure/component
• Operation according to procedures 
and technical specifications
• Chemistry control
Environmental control
• Operating history, including 
transient records
 
 
2. Development and optimization of activities for 
aging management of a structure/component
Preparing, coordinating, maintaining and 
improving activities for aging management
PLAN
ACT
CHECK
DO
•
•
• Operational experience
 
Inspection/monitoring/maintenance history
• Mitigation methods
• Current status, condition indicators
• Reliability
•
•
•
•
•
Check for 
degradation
Minimize 
expected 
degradation
Improve effectiveness 
of aging management 
programs
Mitigate 
degradation
 
 
5 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Reliability and maintenance programs typically do not include passive, long-life SSCs (such as 
reactor assembly components, fuel channels, feeders, steam generators, pressure vessels and 
piping, structures and cables) that are difficult or impossible to replace or change except in an 
extended maintenance or refurbishment outage. Inspection and surveillance programs provide 
information used to confirm the current condition or fitness for service of these SSCs.  
Lifecycle management plans are developed for structures and components, but do not typically 
consider the effects of other components or overall system safety performance. An important 
aspect is the determination of the impact of aging on facility safety, including safety margins as 
determined through an updated deterministic safety analysis, which requires a systematic and 
integrated approach to aging management. 
The licensee’s management system processes should therefore include requirements to ensure 
there is a documented overall integrated AM program framework for the reactor facility. The 
integrated AM program framework should provide a comprehensive, umbrella-type program. 
Alternatively, the AM program framework could include a “road map” document that 
demonstrates how the current processes and programs meet requirements for effective aging 
management. Aging management does not necessarily replace existing programs but, on the basis 
of evaluation, modifies them (reduces, enhances, eliminates, or supplements them) to achieve a 
systematic, integrated program for effective aging management.  
SSC-specific or mechanistic-based AM plans should be established and implemented in 
accordance with the licensee’s integrated AM program framework, and should address the 
attributes of an effective AM plan as presented in appendix A. The scope of the AM plans for 
SSCs should be commensurate with the importance to safety, design function and required 
performance of the SSCs, and its effect on the safe operation of the reactor facility.  
Existing facility programs or practices that are credited as AM plans (such as equipment life cycle 
management plans, system health monitoring programs, water chemistry programs, inspection 
programs, and environmental qualification programs) should be evaluated against the attributes 
listed in appendix A. Programs or plans that do not include these attributes should be modified as 
appropriate. For example, existing system health, maintenance or inspection programs or 
practices may be adequate for the aging management of an SSC, provided they address the 
attributes listed in Appendix A.  
Specific requirements for the licensee’s integrated AM program framework and associated AM 
plans are provided in section 4.0. 
3. 
Proactive Strategy for Aging Management 
Aging management activities shall be implemented proactively throughout the lifecycle of a 
reactor facility or SSC (e.g., in design, fabrication and construction, commissioning, operating, 
and decommissioning). 
Guidance 
This document emphasizes the need for proactive consideration of aging management during 
each lifecycle phase of a reactor facility: design, construction, commissioning, operation 
(including long-term operation and extended shutdowns) and decommissioning. The lifecycle 
phases can apply to individual SSCs as well as the entire reactor facility. 
 
6 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
3.1 
Design 
Appropriate measures shall be taken and design features shall be introduced in the design stage to 
facilitate effective aging management throughout the lifetime of the reactor facility.  
Aging management shall also be considered in the design of modifications to existing operating 
facilities, and for design changes related to modifications and repairs or replacements of 
individual SSCs. 
Guidance 
A proactive approach to aging management begins with the design phase during which important 
decisions having significant impact for preventing and managing aging effects are made. 
RD/GD-337, Design of New Nuclear Power Plants [7] and its successor document2 establish 
design requirements for new reactor facilities which include taking into account the effects of 
aging and wear of SSCs. This document applies to new facilities, as well as to future design 
changes, repairs and replacements that apply to operating facilities and SSCs.  
The requirement to take appropriate measures, and to introduce design features – during the 
design stage – to facilitate effective aging management, complements the requirements in 
RD/GD-337. The following aspects related to aging management should be considered at the 
design stage: 
1. apply a systematic approach at the design stage to ascertain the understanding of aging of 
SSCs, in order to evaluate effective approaches and design features for aging prevention, 
monitoring and mitigation, and to establish AM plans for SSCs (see sections 4.3, 4.4, and 4.6) 
2. consider the effects and interactions between mechanical, thermal, chemical, electrical, 
physical, biological and radiation stressors on materials properties, materials aging and 
degradation processes. In design documentation, demonstrate how past relevant generic aging 
issues, relevant aging management experience, and research results are addressed 
3. define the safe service life or qualified life for SSCs in the design documentation, with an 
assessment of design margins that takes into account all known aging and wear mechanisms 
and potential degradation, including the effects of testing and maintenance processes. Identify 
SSCs that have shorter service lives than the nominal design life, and provide management 
strategies in the design documentation 
4. consider aging effects under design-basis conditions, including transient conditions and 
postulated initiating event conditions, in the specifications for equipment qualification 
programs; e.g., environmental qualification and seismic qualification programs 
5. include features in the plant layout and design of SSCs to facilitate inspection, testing, 
surveillance, maintenance, repair, and replacement activities, and to keep potential radiation 
exposures from these activities as low as reasonably achievable 
6. specify the reference (baseline) and other pre-service, inaugural, or in-service inspection and 
test data that is required to be collected and documented for aging management purposes 
during fabrication, construction, commissioning, operation, and decommissioning 
7. identify potential obsolescence issues for SSCs, evaluate effects on safety and reliability 
performance, and provide management strategies 
2 The successor document is entitled REGDOC-2.5.2, Design of Reactor Facilities: Nuclear Power Plants 
 
7 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
8. in design documents, specify any special process applied to fabrication (or manufacturing) 
and construction of SSCs that prevent, mitigate, or eliminate known aging mechanisms; 
e.g., heat treatment, surface finishing, curing regime 
9. in design documents, specify critical environmental and operating conditions and any other 
parameters to be monitored and/or controlled that affect aging assumptions used in design 
10. specify required provisions for aging management in procurement documents for new 
facilities and SSCs, including documents from suppliers and other contractors (design 
institutions, vendors, manufacturers, inspection agencies, etc.)  
Aging management is also to be considered in the design of modifications to existing operating 
facilities, and for the design of modifications, repairs, and replacements of individual SSCs. This 
does not preclude the use of like-for-like items for repairs and replacements; however, if failure 
or degraded performance of a structure, system or component is caused by premature aging, then 
consideration should be given to incorporating improvements that will prevent or slow down the 
aging effects. Aging management considerations for repairs and replacements may include, for 
example, selection of improved materials, increased piping wall thickness, stress relief of pipe 
bends, and the recording of baseline measurements. 
3.1.1 
Aging management content in safety analysis reports 
The deterministic safety analysis for the reactor facility shall account for the cumulative effects of 
aging degradation of SSCs on overall systems and facility safety performance. 
Periodic reviews of the safety analysis reports are to include operating experience and research 
findings with respect to aging and the implementation of the results of that analysis (see also 
section 3.4.1). 
Guidance 
The deterministic safety analysis and probabilistic safety assessment for the reactor facility 
should be based on complete and accurate design and operational information and is to account 
for the cumulative effects of aging degradation of SSCs on overall systems and facility safety 
performance 3, 4. For deterministic safety analysis, significant uncertainties in analysis or data 
relevant to aging assumptions, including those associated with reactor facility performance, 
operational measurements, and modelling parameters, should be identified and considered. 
The safety analysis report for the reactor facility should address the following items relating to 
aging management: 
1. an outline of the proactive strategy for aging management and prerequisites for its 
implementation 
2. safety-significant SSCs of the reactor facility that could be affected by aging 
3. assumptions, methods, acceptance criteria, and data used to account for the effects of the 
aging of SSCs in the safety analysis, including any time-limited assumptions and failure data 
for probabilistic safety assessments 
3 RD-310, Safety Analysis for Nuclear Power Plants [4] and GD-310, Guidance on Safety Analysis for 
Nuclear Power Plants [5], or the successor document REGDOC-2.4.1, Deterministic Safety Analysis 
4 S-294, Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear Power Plants [6] or its successor document 
REGDOC-2.4.2, Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear Power Plants 
 
8 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
4. critical service conditions, operational limits and conditions, and any other parameters to be 
monitored and/or controlled that affect aging assumptions used in deterministic safety 
analyses or equipment qualification 
5. data and information to be collected for aging management in order to confirm that 
deterministic safety analysis assumptions and acceptance criteria continue to be met 
3.2 
Fabrication, construction, and installation 
Aging management shall be considered in the fabrication, construction, and installation processes 
for new reactor facilities, and the processes for modifications, repairs, and replacements of SSCs 
for existing operating reactor facilities. 
Methods to ensure that fabrication (or manufacturing), construction, and installation processes do 
not adversely affect aging performance of SSCs shall be defined in relevant procedures. 
Guidance 
Fabrication and construction practices can have a significant effect on the aging resistance of 
SSCs, which often only become apparent much later in the operating life. Provisions to monitor, 
manage, and control aging degradation of SSCs should therefore be established and implemented, 
to ensure that the fabrication, construction, and installation processes do not adversely affect the 
aging resistance of SSCs. These provisions should take account of current aging management 
knowledge and experience, and other relevant factors affecting aging and aging management of 
SSCs.  
The licensee should ensure the following items are taken into consideration: 
1. current knowledge about relevant aging mechanisms, effects/degradation, and possible 
preventive and mitigation measures are taken into account in fabrication, construction, and 
installation of SSCs  
2. prequalification and quality control / quality assurance during construction 
3. relevant information on the factors affecting aging management and parameters influencing 
aging degradation is clearly specified in procurement documents and provided to SSCs 
suppliers and contractors 
4. suppliers and contractors adequately address factors affecting aging management 
5. reference (baseline) data required for aging management are collected and documented 
6. surveillance specimens for specific aging monitoring programs are made available and 
installed in accordance with design specifications 
3.3 
Commissioning 
Aging management shall be considered in the commissioning activities for new reactor facilities 
and in projects for existing facilities that involve major repairs, replacements and modifications of 
SSCs. 
Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that baseline data required for aging management 
of SSCs is recorded during commissioning.  
Critical service conditions and parameters, such as those considered in equipment qualification 
and aging assumptions in the design and safety analyses, shall be verified. 
 
9 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Guidance 
The following should be taken into account in commissioning activities: 
1. relevant information on the factors affecting aging management and parameters influencing 
aging degradation should be identified, taken into account, monitored, and controlled in 
commissioning 
2. required baseline or inaugural inspection data for aging management should be recorded 
3. critical service conditions and parameters, such as those considered in equipment 
qualification and aging assumptions in safety analyses, should be verified as being in 
compliance with the design and safety 
4. special attention should be paid to identification and recording of thermal and radiation hot 
spots, and to measurement of vibration levels 
3.4 
Operation 
Licensees shall establish and implement processes, programs and procedures to manage aging 
and obsolescence of SSCs, to ensure that required safety functions are maintained during the 
facility operation phase.  
Facility operations shall be monitored and recorded to demonstrate compliance with critical 
service conditions, operational limits and conditions, and any other parameters that were 
identified (see section 3.1.1) as affecting aging assumptions used in safety analyses or equipment 
qualification. 
In the event of operational changes or modifications to SSCs, a review of possible changes in 
environmental or process conditions (e.g., temperature, flow pattern, velocity, vibration, 
radiation) that could affect aging and failure of SSCs (see section 3.1) shall be performed. 
Corrective actions identified by AM plan activities shall be managed within the reactor facility’s 
corrective action program. 
Measures shall be taken to store spare or replacement parts and consumables in appropriately 
controlled environments (i.e., with appropriate temperatures and moisture levels, and to prevent 
chemical attack or dust accumulation), taking shelf life into account, in order to preclude aging 
degradation. 
Guidance  
During the facility operating phase, licensees are expected to establish and implement an overall 
facility AM program framework that ensures the coordination and communication between all 
relevant facility and external programs for managing aging and obsolescence of SSCs. A 
systematic approach (including appropriate organizational arrangements, data collection and 
record keeping, SSC screening and aging evaluations) should be applied in order to ensure: 
1. all SSCs that are susceptible to aging effects or obsolescence that can, directly or indirectly, 
have an adverse effect on the safe operation of the reactor facility are identified 
2. aging effects of SSCs and potential impacts on safety functions due to aging and 
obsolescence are systematically identified, evaluated and documented 
3. effective actions for preventing, monitoring and mitigating aging are evaluated and 
implemented to ensure that the required SSCs and safety functions will not be impaired 
 
10 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
during normal operation and design-basis accident conditions, as well as those relied on for 
design extension conditions  
Additional detail is provided in section 4.0. 
Critical service conditions, operational limits and conditions, and other parameters identified as 
affecting aging assumptions used in safety analyses, design or equipment qualification should be 
monitored and recorded to ensure compliance, and to provide for timely detection, reporting and 
evaluation of unexpected service conditions – so that corrective actions can be taken before 
reactor facility safety is negatively impacted. 
Procedures should be in place to ensure that any changes to system operations or design 
modifications are reviewed for the effect on environment or process conditions (e.g., temperature, 
flow pattern, velocity, vibration, radiation fluence) of SSCs, including neighbouring or connected 
SSCs, such that they do not introduce a detrimental aging effect or new failure mechanism. In 
such cases, AM plans should be updated accordingly. 
Procedures should be in place to ensure that if a new aging mechanism is discovered (e.g., 
through feedback from inspections, surveillance, operating experience or research findings), an 
appropriate aging management review is carried out. 
3.4.1 
Review and update of safety analysis 
As part of the deterministic safety analysis review and update, licensees shall account for the 
effects of the aging of SSCs, research findings, and advances in knowledge and understanding of 
aging mechanisms. This shall include an evaluation of the cumulative effects of the aging of 
SSCs on overall system and facility safety performance, as well as on risk insights using 
probabilistic safety assessments. 
Guidance 
The deterministic safety analysis should be periodically reviewed and updated to account for 
changes in reactor facility configuration and conditions, operating parameters and procedures, 
research findings, and advances in knowledge and understanding of physical phenomena.  
Data and information collected from AM plans should be reviewed to confirm that deterministic 
safety analysis assumptions, credited parameters and predictions remain valid, and that limiting 
criteria and required design margins continue to be met as the facility ages.  
The probabilistic safety assessment should be updated periodically, as per S-294, Probabilistic 
Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear Power Plants [6], or its successor document5, using the data 
and information collected from AM plans as much as practicable. 
3.4.2 
Long-term operation 
The licensee shall complete an in-depth review of the effects of aging on reactor facility safety 
and evaluate the effectiveness of AM plans for long-term operation in order to identify corrective 
5 The successor document is entitled REGDOC-2.4.2, Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear 
Power Plants. 
 
11 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
actions and areas for improvement. Condition assessments shall be completed as part of the 
review of aging for long-term operation (see section 4.5). 
The review shall demonstrate that: 
1. all SSCs that can, directly or indirectly, have an adverse effect on the safe operation of the 
reactor facility are evaluated for the proposed period of long-term operation 
2. the effects of aging will continue to be identified and managed for these SSCs during the 
planned period of long-term operation 
3. all deterministic safety analyses involving time-limited assumptions are validated for the 
proposed period of long-term operation to ensure that the aging effects will be effectively 
managed (i.e., to demonstrate that the intended function of an SSC will remain within the 
design safety margins throughout the planned period of long-term operation) 
The results of the review of aging management for long-term operation shall be documented, and 
the findings shall be addressed. 
Guidance 
A review of the actual condition of SSCs and of the management of aging for long-term operation 
should be conducted in accordance with RD-360, Life Extension of Nuclear Power Plants [18] or 
its successor document6, and IAEA Specific Safety Guide SSG-25, Periodic Safety Review of 
Nuclear Power Plants [19]. Additional guidance on the conduct of aging management review for 
safe long-term operation is provided in IAEA Safety Report Series No. 57, Safe Long Term 
Operation of Nuclear Power Plants [2] and IAEA Safety Report Series No. 82, Ageing 
Management for Nuclear Power Plants: International Generic Ageing Lessons Learned (IGALL) 
[20]. 
3.4.3 
Extended shutdowns 
Licensees shall review and, where necessary, revise SSC-specific AM plans to ensure that 
relevant factors affecting aging degradation are taken into account for SSCs placed in lay-up or 
safe-storage states during extended shutdowns.  
Required provisions for aging management shall be defined in system lay-up specifications or 
preservation plans, including requirements for any condition assessments to be completed prior to 
the return to service of a reactor facility following an extended shutdown (see section 4.5). 
Guidance 
Extended shutdowns are reactor shutdowns lasting for a period exceeding one year, and exclude 
regular maintenance outages. During extended shutdowns, SSCs may need to be placed in 
temporary lay-up or safe-storage states that require supplementary measures and controls to 
prevent aging degradation. 
The review and revision to SSC-specific aging management processes may take into 
consideration the differences in hazard potential and operating conditions between the temporary 
lay-up or safe storage states and the normal operating states. 
6 The successor document is entitled REGDOC-2.3.3, Operating Performance: Integrated Safety Reviews. 
 
12 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Provisions for aging management should include defining any requirements for a condition 
assessment or any other aging management activities. Not all condition assessments in the scope 
of the aging management program need to be completed prior to return to service from an 
extended shutdown. The scope of the condition assessments should be based on the lay-up 
conditions, the results and time since the last condition assessment and the duration of the 
shutdown.  
The provisions for aging management, including scope of condition assessments, should be 
reassessed if the duration of the shutdown is greatly extended beyond what was originally 
anticipated (for example, due to unforeseen issues or delays in the return to service). 
3.5 
Decommissioning 
Licensees shall establish and implement aging management activities in decommissioning plans 
and procedures for SSCs that are required to remain available and functional during 
decommissioning. 
Guidance 
During the transition period from reactor unit shutdown to decommissioning and, where required, 
to facilitate decommissioning, appropriate aging management arrangements need to be continued 
to ensure that required SSCs remain available and functional. The stabilization activities phase 
(SAP) and storage and surveillance phase (SSP) may be considered as a subset of 
decommissioning, where attention must be paid to any equipment related to irradiated fuel bay 
operations, shutdown cooling, and core defuelling activities (fuelling machines and fuel transfer 
system equipment). This may require implementing relatively long-term aging management 
provisions for certain SSCs; for example, containment and spent fuel bay systems, fire protection 
systems, lifting equipment and monitoring equipment. Such provisions must be consistent with 
licensing requirements. 
AM plans may no longer be required for specific SSCs after they are permanently taken out of 
service, and the residual risks are low and acceptable. For example, for reactor components this 
could be after the reactor is de-fuelled and drained, and placed into safe storage. However, AM 
plans would be required for those SSCs needed to monitor or secure the activated / contaminated 
reactor components (e.g. fire protection, monitoring equipment, security equipment).  
4. 
Integrated Aging Management 
Licensees shall apply a systematic and integrated approach to establish, implement and improve 
appropriate programs to manage aging and obsolescence of SSCs. Reactor facility management 
processes shall include requirements to ensure there is a documented overall integrated AM 
program framework for the reactor facility that addresses the following elements: 
1. organizational arrangements 
2. data collection and record keeping 
3. screening and selection process for aging management 
4. evaluations for aging management 
5. condition assessments 
6. SSC-specific AM plans 
7. management of obsolescence 
8. interfaces with other supporting facility programs 
 
13 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
9. implementation of AM program and plans 
10. review and improvement of AM program and plans 
SSC-specific AM plans shall be implemented in accordance with the overall integrated AM 
program framework. 
Guidance 
The integrated AM program framework should provide a comprehensive, umbrella-type program 
or, alternatively, a “road map” document that demonstrates how the current processes and 
programs meet the requirements for effective aging management. The integrated AM program 
framework would be subject to CNSC compliance program inspections and reviews. 
Detailed requirements are provided in the following sections. Alternative approaches may be 
acceptable, provided these elements are addressed in an equivalent manner that is demonstrated to 
be effective in managing aging. 
4.1 
Organizational arrangements for effective aging management 
The reactor facility management processes shall include requirements to ensure that appropriate 
organizational arrangements are established to facilitate the effective implementation of AM 
plans. 
Guidance 
The following aspects should be considered: 
1. established policy and objectives of the overall integrated AM program framework, allocated 
resources (such as human, financial, training, tools, and equipment), and processes to monitor 
the program to ensure it is meeting its objectives 
2. defined responsibilities for the implementation of aging management activities 
3. provision of training and mentoring to operations, maintenance, engineering, and other 
pertinent staff to ensure they have adequate awareness and understanding of aging 
management concepts and program requirements 
4. external organizations, if/when required, for specific services related to aging management, 
such as specialized inspections, assessments, research, and standards development 
4.2 
Data collection and record-keeping system to support aging management 
The licensee shall have an appropriate data collection and record-keeping system to support aging 
management activities and to provide a basis for decisions on the type and timing of aging 
management actions.  
Data entered into the system shall be auditable to demonstrate an adequate verification of the data 
entered, detailed description of the basis for any conclusion, and to trace all applicable sources of 
information.  
 
14 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Guidance 
A data collection and record keeping system should be established early in the life of a reactor 
facility to support the AM plans. Data and records relevant to aging management include: 
1. reference (baseline) data on the design, fabrication, and construction of the facility or SSCs 
and conditions at the beginning of the service life, including results of equipment 
qualification tests, inspections, commissioning tests, and mappings of environmental 
conditions during construction and commissioning 
2. data on the operating history of the facility, service conditions for SSCs (including transient 
data), chemistry conditions, SSC condition indicators, event reports, and data on the testing of 
availability and failure of SSCs  
3. results of in-service inspections and material surveillance, including inspection specifications 
and results, as well as findings that exceed reporting levels 
4. data on the maintenance history, including data on the monitoring of the condition and 
maintenance of components and structures, assessments of aging related failures or 
significant degradation of SSCs, including results of root-cause analyses 
5. records of SSC aging evaluations and condition assessments, performance indicators of AM 
plans’ effectiveness, SSC health indicators, internal and external operating experience, and 
research results 
4.3 
Screening and selection of structures, systems and components 
A documented screening and selection process shall be used to establish the list of SSCs to be 
included in the scope of the overall integrated AM program framework. This process shall 
include SSCs susceptible to aging degradation or aging effects that can, directly or indirectly, 
have an adverse effect on the safe operation of the reactor facility. The process shall include SSCs 
that do not have safety functions, but whose failure could prevent safety-related SSCs from 
performing their intended functions. 
Guidance 
The screening and selection requirements in section 4.3 are commensurate with RD/GD-210, 
Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants [16], which covers all SSCs within the bounds 
of the facility. The selection process for aging management will include long-lived passive SSCs 
that may not be covered by maintenance programs. The screening and selection requirements for 
aging management are intentionally broader in scope than those of RD/GD-98, Reliability 
Programs for Nuclear Power Plants [15], which focuses on reliability performance of primarily 
active components in systems important to safety. 
The screening and selection process for SSCs should follow a safety-based approach. The 
following list is an example of such considerations: 
1. from a comprehensive list of all SSCs, identify those whose malfunction or failure could lead 
directly or indirectly to the loss or impairment of a safety function 
2. ensure that the list includes all SSCs whose degradation may challenge or affect the 
assumptions made in the safety analyses 
3. ensure that the list includes all SSCs relied upon for design extension conditions (for 
example, emergency filtered containment vent, provisions for emergency water makeup, 
equipment to mitigate hydrogen and combustible gases, and dedicated instrumentation for 
beyond-design-basis accidents) 
 
15 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
4. for each SSC, identify those structural elements and components whose failure could lead 
directly or indirectly to the loss or impairment of a safety function. This may include 
consideration of surrounding or neighbouring structures, piping, components and supports 
that are not safety-related, but whose failure could affect a safety-related item 
5. from the list of structural elements and components, identify those for which aging 
degradation has the potential to cause component failure; provide justification for the 
excluded components 
This screening and selection process should consider relevant operating experience and research 
findings. 
For SSCs that are not included in the AM plan, appropriate provisions should be implemented to 
ensure their safety significance will not change throughout the facility’s life because of 
degradation due to aging. 
The documentation of the screening and selection process should include the information sources 
and any criteria used, and arrange the final list of elements and components into related 
categories. 
The records produced should be identified as permanent records. 
4.4 
Evaluations for aging management 
The reactor facility’s management processes and procedures shall include requirements for 
conducting, documenting, and keeping records of evaluations for aging management. The 
evaluations address the following elements: 
1. understanding aging 
2. preventive actions to minimize and control aging degradation 
3. methods for detection, monitoring, and trending of aging effects 
4. methods for mitigating aging effects and corrective actions 
The procedure for conducting the evaluations for aging management shall be documented, as well 
as the results of the evaluations. 
Guidance 
A recommended methodology is to conduct an evaluation of relevant information and then 
document the findings (see Appendix B). 
The results of operating experience, research and development, and available previous aging 
evaluations (both generic and facility-specific) can be used in the evaluations. Relevant 
applicable aging management reviews (i.e., those prepared by the licensee, suppliers or support 
organizations) should be used to minimize duplication of effort, if available. Appropriate 
references should be made, and an explanation of the use of these references should be provided. 
The results of the evaluations should summarize the pertinent aging issues and effectiveness of 
current practices, such as existing lifecycle management plans, and system health monitoring, 
inspection and maintenance programs. They should also provide recommendations for activities 
in the SSC aging management plan and for facility-supporting programs in design, operation, 
monitoring, and maintenance, and identify areas for further research and development. 
 
16 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
4.4.1 
Understanding of aging  
Reactor facility management processes shall include requirements for the evaluation of the 
current understanding of aging for the selected structure, system or component.  
Guidance 
The current understanding of aging for the selected structure, system or component should be 
documented based on an evaluation of possible and actual aging mechanisms. The evaluation is 
to consider the effects of aging degradation on SSC safety function, the effect on the ability of 
other SSCs to perform their intended safety functions, and other consequences of failure.  
The evaluation should identify: 
1. SSC design and licensing basis requirements relevant to aging and aging management 
(including applicable codes and standards, deterministic safety analysis, safety functions, and 
consequences of failure) 
2. SSC materials, service conditions, stressors, degradation sites, aging mechanisms and effects 
3. indicators of the physical or functional condition of SSCs (condition indicators) 
4. anticipated obsolescence issues 
5. quantitative or qualitative models for predicting relevant aging effects, and any gaps in 
understanding 
6. SSC life-limiting conditions and acceptance criteria against which the need for corrective 
action is evaluated 
7. a list of data needs for the assessment of SSC aging (including any deficiencies in availability 
and quality of existing records) 
4.4.2 
Preventive actions to minimize and control aging degradation 
Methods to prevent and control aging degradation shall be evaluated to establish appropriate 
actions that can be taken.  
Guidance 
The evaluation should identify: 
1. preventive actions to be taken in design, selection of materials and coatings, fabrication and 
construction practices, commissioning, service conditions, and preventive operation and 
maintenance practices (including specifications for SSC lay-up conditions) 
2. parameters to be monitored or inspected to ensure the preventive actions are effective 
3. service conditions (environmental conditions and operating conditions) to be maintained and 
operating practices aimed at slowing down potential degradation of the structure or 
component 
4.4.3 
Methods for detecting, monitoring, and trending aging effects 
Methods for the detection, monitoring, and trending of aging effects shall be evaluated to 
establish appropriate actions that can be taken.  
 
17 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Guidance 
The evaluation should identify: 
1. parameters and condition indicators for detecting, monitoring, and trending aging degradation 
of the structure or component 
2. effective technology (inspection, testing, surveillance, and monitoring methods) for detecting 
aging effects – with sufficient sensitivity, reliability, and accuracy – before SSCs fail 
3. data to be collected to facilitate assessment of the aging of SSCs 
4. data evaluation techniques (including data analysis and trending) for recognizing significant 
degradation and for predicting future performance of the SSCs  
National and international operating experience should be considered in the evaluation. The 
evaluation of technology and methods should consider the need for the detection of unexpected 
degradation, depending on how critical the SSC is to safety. For example, while inspections to 
deal with known degradation mechanisms may incidentally result in discovery of unexpected 
degradation, there is no assurance that unexpected degradation will always be detected. 
Surveillance programs involving the removal of items (e.g., pressure tubes, material coupons) can 
assist in discovery of degradation mechanisms that were not previously known. 
As well, it is known that measurements of degradation on specific components can demonstrate a 
large variation even for similar items (e.g., feeder pipe wall thinning, pressure tube flaws). The 
evaluation should take into account the need for an appropriate level of statistical confidence that 
significant degradation will not go undetected. 
Where it is critical to life management activities or to fitness-for-service calculations, or where 
significant changes in inspection techniques are to be implemented, parallel measurements or 
comparison with existing qualified techniques should be conducted. This is to ensure proper 
calibration and to correct any bias.  
The evaluation should also include an assessment of the safety risks to the facility and workers 
from the data collection activities. 
4.4.4 
Methods for mitigating aging effects and corrective actions 
Methods for mitigating aging effects shall be evaluated to establish appropriate corrective actions 
that can be taken.  
Guidance 
The evaluation should identify: 
• 
operations, maintenance, repair and replacement actions to allow timely mitigation of 
detected aging effects or degradation 
• 
acceptance criteria against which the need for corrective action is evaluated 
• 
corrective actions if a component fails to meet the acceptance criteria 
The effectiveness of existing methods and practices for mitigating aging degradation should take 
account of relevant operating experience and research results. 
 
18 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
4.5 
Condition assessments 
Reactor facility management processes shall include requirements to evaluate the actual condition 
of a structure, system or component at the initiation of the SSC-specific AM plan and at periodic 
intervals throughout the service life of the reactor facility or structure, system or component, as 
required, to validate the AM plan’s effectiveness. The procedure for conducting condition 
assessments and the results shall be documented.  
Guidance 
Condition assessments are used to establish the actual condition of an SSC, usually at the 
initiation of the SSC-specific AM plan, and certain times during the service life of the reactor 
facility or SSC as required for validating the AM plan’s effectiveness. For example, condition 
assessments are also completed as part of the review of aging for extended or long-term operation 
(see section 3.4.2), and may be required before a reactor facility returns to service after an 
extended shutdown period or SSC lay-up (see section 3.4.3). 
The condition assessments should provide information on: 
• 
the current performance and condition of the SSC, including assessment of any aging related 
failures or indications of significant material degradation, previously unidentified aging 
mechanisms or effects, and comparisons against predictions for the aging mechanisms and 
acceptance criteria 
• 
estimation of future performance, degradation due to aging, and residual service life, where 
feasible, of the SSC (i.e., the length of time the SSC is likely to meet its function and 
performance requirements) 
• 
recommended follow-up or prevention, monitoring, and mitigation measures to be completed 
and/or incorporated into the AM plan, including appropriate intervals for follow-up condition 
assessments and areas for further research and development 
Condition assessments of SSCs may be conducted as part of the evaluations for aging 
management (see section 4.4).  
4.6 
SSC-specific aging management plans 
Reactor facility management processes shall include requirements to develop, document, and 
maintain a specific AM plan for the aging management of SSCs (or groups of structures and 
components) selected by the screening process, or alternatively an AM plan for managing a 
specific aging mechanism or effect. 
The SSC-specific AM plans shall be documented and address the attributes of an effective AM 
plan as listed in appendix A. 
Guidance 
The AM plan should specify what range of outcomes they can reasonably accommodate, and take 
into account the ability to adjust the plans to outcomes outside of that range. 
The scope of the SSC-specific AM plan should be commensurate with the importance to safety, 
design function and required performance of the structure, system or component, and its effect on 
the safe operation of the reactor facility. For example, the critical life-limiting SSCs of current 
 
19 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
CANDU reactors – such as fuel channels, heat transport feeder piping and steam generators – will 
have detailed lifecycle management plans as part of their SSC-specific AM plans. AM plans may 
not necessarily be specific to SSCs, but could instead focus on degradation mechanisms or 
operational requirements to control or predict degradation; for example, plans or programs for 
managing flow-accelerated corrosion, water chemistry and fatigue monitoring. 
Each SSC-specific AM plan should cover the nine attributes of an effective program (see 
appendix A). Existing facility programs that are credited as should be evaluated against the 
attributes listed in appendix A. Programs that do not include these attributes should be modified 
as appropriate. For example, existing life cycle management plans, system health monitoring, 
maintenance or inspection programs or practices may be eligible as the AM plan of an SSC, 
provided they address the attributes listed in appendix A. 
The required attributes of SSC-specific AM plans are typically implemented through several 
facility programs. Recognizing this, the documentation of an SSC-specific AM plan should 
provide, for each attribute, a summary description of the SSC-specific application of the relevant 
facility program(s) and references to reactor facility documents containing the supporting 
basis/evidence. 
It is up to the reactor facility licensee to identify its AM plan performance indicators. This could 
include the program health indicators currently used in system health reports. Other examples of 
indicators include: 
• 
material condition with respect to acceptance criteria 
• 
trends of data relating to failure and degradation 
• 
comparison of preventive and corrective maintenance efforts (e.g., in terms of person-years or 
cost) 
• 
number of recurrent failures and instances of degradation 
• 
status of compliance with inspection programs 
The AM plan document should also include a summary page that highlights the key information 
useful for understanding and managing aging, including materials, degradation sites, aging 
stressors and environment, aging mechanisms and effects, inspection and monitoring 
requirements and methods, mitigation methods, regulatory requirements, and acceptance criteria. 
Additional information and summaries of SSC-specific AM plans are provided in IAEA Safety 
Report Series No. 82, Ageing Management for Nuclear Power Plants: International Generic 
Ageing Lessons Learned (IGALL). [20]. 
4.7 
Management of obsolescence 
The licensee shall have a managed process for obsolescence. The provisions for the management 
of obsolescence shall be documented in the licensee’s management system. 
Guidance 
The program for management of obsolescence should address the following: 
• 
spare parts supplies for planned service life  
• 
long-term arrangements for manufacturers and spare parts suppliers, and for required 
technical support 
 
20 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
• 
availability of documentation to support maintenance and replacement of SSCs 
• 
availability of documentation and technology to support development of equivalent SSCs, if 
needed 
• 
arrangements for modernization and technology updates 
4.8 
Interfaces with other supporting programs 
All supporting programs and activities that are credited as an integral part of the reactor facility’s 
aging management shall be identified, and their interfaces and information requirements defined 
in the overall integrated AM program framework document. 
Guidance 
The integrated AM program framework should also identify the aging management information 
that needs to be provided as inputs into other facility programs and activities, including safety 
analysis 7, 8, maintenance 9, and reliability programs 10. As an example, section 3.4.1 includes a 
requirement for data and information collected from the AM plan to be reviewed within the 
program for the periodic review and update of the deterministic safety analysis. 
4.9 
Implementation of aging management programs 
The overall integrated AM program framework and SSC-specific AM plans and major actions 
related to aging management shall be implemented under the licensee’s management system for 
the facility.  
Data identified in AM plans shall be collected and recorded to provide a basis for decisions on the 
type and timing of aging management actions. 
Guidance 
The implementation of AM plans should provide a systematic aging management process, based 
on an understanding of aging, consisting of the following aging management tasks (see figure 1): 
• 
planning activities, including documentation of applicable regulatory requirements and safety 
and reliability criteria, relevant programs and activities 
• 
operation within operating guidelines aimed at minimizing the rate of degradation 
• 
inspection and monitoring activities aimed at timely detection and assessment of aging 
degradation 
• 
maintenance activities aimed at mitigating aging effects and corrective actions for 
unacceptable degradation 
7  RD-310, Safety Analysis for Nuclear Power Plants [4] and GD-310, Guidance on Safety Analysis for 
Nuclear Power Plants [5], or the successor document, REGDOC-2.4.1, Deterministic Safety Analysis 
8  S-294, Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear Power Plants [6] or its successor document 
REGDOC-2.4.2, Probabilistic Safety Assessment for Nuclear Power Plants 
9  RD/GD-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants [16] 
10 RD/GD-98, Reliability Programs for Nuclear Power Plants [15] 
 
21 
 
                                                     
 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
4.10 
Review and improvement 
The effectiveness of the overall integrated AM program framework and SSC-specific AM plans 
shall be periodically reviewed using feedback from the program and performance indicators. 
The licensee shall update AM plans and interfacing programs, and their implementation, to 
improve their effectiveness based on the results of the review as appropriate. 
Guidance 
The reviews should be conducted on a regular periodic basis and documented. Program reviews 
should include consideration of the operating performance, inspection and maintenance histories, 
results of condition assessments, event reports, information from the results of research and 
development, self assessments, and operating experience, current issues, and future actions. 
Recommendations and corrective actions for AM plans and supporting programs should be 
implemented in a timely manner, as appropriate. Aging management is a specific area reported on 
in the CNSC’s annual nuclear power industry safety performance reports. 
Consideration should be given to arranging for peer reviews of AM plans to obtain an 
independent assessment, to establish if they are consistent with generally accepted practices and 
to identify areas for improvement. 
Whenever an AM plan’s deficiency is identified, the licensee should assess its significance and, 
where appropriate, conduct a causal analysis and take corrective actions. AM plans should be 
adjusted as appropriate in response to the new information. When a component fails to meet the 
acceptance criteria, the cause of the component failure should be identified and reviewed, in order 
to determine corrective actions that should be implemented in a timely manner to prevent 
recurrences. Lead times to plan and implement options can be a significant factor in aging 
management planning. Therefore, it is recommended for AM plans to identify when work should 
be started, with regard given to when critical options are needed in order to manage the range of 
uncertainties. A confirmation process should be established to ensure that corrective actions have 
been completed and are effective.  
Adequately funded research and development programs should be put in place to respond to any 
new aging issues and to provide for continuous improvement of the understanding and 
predictability of aging mechanisms and the causes of aging, and associated monitoring and 
mitigation methods or practices. A strategic approach should be made to promoting relevant long-
term research and development programs. 
 
22 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Appendix A: Attributes of an Effective Aging Management Plan 
Adapted from the International Atomic Energy Agency Safety Guide Ageing Management of Nuclear 
Power Plants NS-G 2.12 [1]. 
Attribute 
Description 
1 
Scope of the aging 
management (AM) 
plan, based on 
understanding of aging 
Systems, structures and components (SSCs) subject to aging management 
(structures include structural elements)  
Understanding of aging phenomena (significant aging mechanisms, susceptible 
sites): 
• 
design and licensing basis requirements relevant to aging 
• 
SSC materials, service conditions, stressors, degradation sites, aging 
mechanisms and effects 
• 
SSC condition indicators and acceptance criteria 
• 
quantitative or qualitative predictive models of relevant aging phenomena 
2 
Preventive actions to 
minimize and control 
degradation due to 
aging 
Identification of preventive actions 
Identification of parameters to be monitored or inspected 
Service conditions (i.e., environmental conditions and operating conditions) to 
be maintained and operating practices aimed at slowing down potential 
degradation of the structure or component 
3 
Detection of aging 
effects 
Effective technology (inspection, testing and monitoring methods) for detecting 
aging effects before failure of the SSCs 
4 
Monitoring and 
trending of aging 
effects 
Condition indicators and parameters to be monitored 
Data to be collected to facilitate assessment of structure or component aging 
Assessment methods (including data analysis and trending) 
5 
Mitigating aging 
effects 
Operations, maintenance, repair and replacement actions to mitigate detected 
aging effects / degradation of SSCs  
6 
Acceptance criteria 
Acceptance criteria against which the need for corrective action is evaluated 
7 
Corrective actions 
Corrective actions if a component fails to meet the acceptance criteria 
8 
Operating experience 
feedback and feedback 
of research and 
development (R&D) 
results 
Mechanism that ensures timely feedback of operating experience and R&D 
results (if applicable), and provides objective evidence that they are taken into 
account in the AM plan 
9 
Quality management 
Organizational roles and responsibilities 
Administrative controls that document the implementation of the AM plan and 
actions taken 
Indicators to facilitate evaluation and improvement of the AM plan 
Confirmation (verification) process for ensuring that preventive actions are 
adequate and appropriate and all corrective actions have been completed and 
are effective 
Record-keeping practices to be followed 
 
23 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Appendix B: Sample Methodology for Aging Evaluation 
Adapted from the International Atomic Energy Agency Safety Guide Ageing Management of Nuclear 
Power Plants NS-G 2.12 [1]. 
Understanding of aging 
Design and 
specifications 
Materials and 
material 
properties 
Service 
conditions 
Performance 
requirements 
Operation and 
maintenance 
histories 
Generic 
operating 
experience 
Relevant research 
and development 
(R&D) results 
Documentation of: 
• current understanding of the aging of structures, systems and components (SSCs) (e.g., aging mechanisms and 
effects, sites of degradation, any analytical/empirical models for predicting SSC degradation, any gaps in 
understanding of aging) 
• acceptance criteria including applicable regulatory or code requirements, set of limits and conditions defining the 
safe operation envelope 
• list of data requirements for the assessment of SSC aging (including any deficiencies in availability and quality of 
existing records) 
↓ 
Prevention of aging degradation 
Evaluation of the effectiveness of methods and practices for prevention of aging degradation of the SSC 
Documentation of the information, including: 
• design, materials, fabrication (or manufacturing) and construction, operations and maintenance methods and 
practices to prevent aging degradation of the SSC 
• operating conditions and practices that prevent or minimize the rate of aging degradation of the SSC 
↓ 
Monitoring of aging degradation 
Evaluation of monitoring methods, taking into account relevant operating experience and research results. 
Documentation of the information, including: 
• functional parameters and condition indicators for detecting, monitoring, and trending aging degradation of the SSC 
• an assessment of the capability and practicability of existing monitoring techniques to measure these parameters and 
indicators with sufficient sensitivity, reliability, and accuracy 
• data evaluation techniques for recognizing significant degradation and for predicting future performance of the SSC 
↓ 
Mitigation of aging degradation 
Evaluation of the effectiveness of existing methods and practices for mitigating aging degradation of the SSC. 
Documentation of the information, including: 
• maintenance methods and practices, condition monitoring (including refurbishment and periodic replacement of parts 
and consumables) to control aging degradation of the SSC 
• operating conditions and practices that minimize the rate of aging degradation of the SSC 
• possible modifications to design and materials of the component to control aging degradation of the SSC 
↓ 
Report on aging management review 
SSC-specific information on understanding, monitoring, and mitigating aging 
Recommendations for the application of results of the aging management review in facility design, operation and 
maintenance, and for R&D to address gaps in knowledge and technology 
 
 
24 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Glossary 
acceptance criteria 
Specified bounds on the value of a functional indicator or condition indicator used to assess the ability of 
a structure, system or component to perform its design function. 
aging 
A general process in which characteristics of a structure, system or component gradually change over 
time or with use. This process may proceed by a single aging mechanism or by a combination of several 
aging mechanisms. Non-physical aging is the process of becoming out-of-date (obsolete) owing to the 
evolution of knowledge and technology and associated changes in codes and standards. Physical aging is 
due to physical, mechanical, thermal, electrical, chemical, irradiation and/or biological processes (aging 
mechanisms). 
aging degradation 
Aging effects that could impair the ability of a structure, system or component to function within its 
acceptance criteria. 
aging effects 
Net changes in the characteristics of a structure, system or component that occur with time or use and are 
due to aging mechanisms. 
aging management (AM) 
Engineering, operations, inspection, and maintenance actions to control, within acceptable limits, the 
effects of physical aging and obsolescence of structures, systems and components.  
aging management program or aging management plan (AM program/plan) 
A set of policies, processes, procedures, arrangements, and activities that provides direction for managing 
the aging of a nuclear power plant’s structures, systems and components. In this document, AM program 
refers to the overall integrated aging management program or framework for the reactor facility. AM plan 
refers to a SSC-specific or mechanistic-based aging management plan. 
aging mechanism 
A specific process that gradually changes characteristics of a structure, system or component with time or 
use, such as thermal or radiation embrittlement, corrosion, fatigue, creep, erosion, etc. 
commissioning 
A process consisting of activities intended to demonstrate that installed structures, systems and 
components and equipment perform in accordance with their specifications and design intent before they 
are put into service. 
common-cause failure 
A concurrent failure of two or more structures, systems, or components due to a single specific event or 
cause, such as natural phenomena (earthquakes, tornadoes, floods, etc.), design deficiency, manufacturing 
flaws, operation and maintenance errors, human-induced destructive events, or aging effects. 
condition assessment 
An assessment performed to determine the current performance and condition of a structure, system or 
component (including assessment of any age-related failures or indications of significant material 
degradation), and to predict future performance, extent and rate of aging degradation, and residual service 
life of the structure, system or component. 
 
25 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
condition indicator 
A characteristic of a structure, system or component that can be observed, measured, or trended to infer or 
directly indicate the current and future ability of the structure, system or component to function within 
acceptance criteria. 
defence in depth 
The application of more than one protective measure for a given safety objective, such that the objective 
is achieved even if one of the protective measures fails. 
design basis 
The range of conditions and events taken explicitly into account in the design of a facility, according to 
established criteria, such that the facility can withstand them without exceeding authorized limits by the 
planned operation of safety systems. 
design extension conditions 
A subset of beyond-design-basis accidents that are considered in the design process of the facility in 
accordance with best-estimate methodology to keep releases of radioactive material within acceptable 
limits. Design extension conditions could include severe accident conditions.  
extended shutdown 
A reactor shutdown lasting for a period exceeding one year and excludes regular maintenance outages. 
failure 
The inability or interruption of ability of a structure, system or component to function within acceptance 
criteria. 
functional indicator 
A condition indicator that is a direct indication of the current ability of a structure, system or component 
to function within acceptance criteria. 
licensing basis 
A set of requirements and documents for a regulated facility or activity comprising: 
• 
the regulatory requirements set out in the applicable laws and regulations 
• 
the conditions and safety and control measures described in the facility’s or activity’s licence and the 
documents directly referenced in that licence 
• 
the safety and control measures described in the licence application and the documents needed to 
support that licence application 
long-term operation 
Operation beyond the assumed design life of the reactor facility, which has been justified by the results of 
safety assessment, considering life limiting processes and features for structures, systems and 
components. 
maintenance 
The organized activities – both administrative and technical – of keeping structures, systems and 
components in good operating condition, including both preventive and corrective (or repair) aspects. 
 
 
26 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
management system 
A set of interrelated or interacting elements (system) for establishing policies and objectives and enabling 
the objectives to be achieved efficiently and effectively. The management system integrates all elements 
of an organization into one coherent system to enable all organizational objectives to be achieved. These 
elements include the organization’s structure, resources, and processes. Personnel, equipment, and 
organizational culture, as well as the documented policies and processes, are all parts of the management 
system. The organization’s processes have to address the totality of the requirements on the organization 
as established in, for example, IAEA safety standards and other international codes and standards. 
obsolescence 
With respect to structures, systems and components, the process of becoming out of date in comparison 
with current knowledge, standards and technology. 
operational limits and conditions 
The set of limits and conditions that can be monitored by, or on behalf of, the operator and can be 
controlled by the operator. 
reactor facility 
Any fission reactor as described in the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations, including structures, 
systems and components: 
• 
that are necessary for shutting down the reactor ensuring that it can be kept in a safe shutdown state 
• 
that may contain radioactive material and which cannot be reliably isolated from the reactor 
• 
whose failure can lead to a limiting accident for the reactor 
• 
that are tightly integrated into the operation of the nuclear facility 
• 
that are needed to maintain security and safeguards 
root-cause analysis 
An objective, structured, systematic and comprehensive analysis that is designed to determine the 
underlying reason(s) for a situation or event, and that is conducted with the level of effort that is 
consistent with the safety significance of the event. 
safety functions 
A specific purpose that must be accomplished by a structure, system or component for safety, including 
those necessary to prevent accident conditions and to mitigate the consequences of accident conditions. 
safety systems 
Systems provided to ensure the safe shutdown of the reactor or the residual heat removal from the core, or 
to limit the consequences of anticipated operational occurrences and design-basis accidents. 
service life 
The period from initial operation to final withdrawal from service of a structure, system or component. 
stressor 
An agent or stimulus stemming from pre-service and service conditions that can produce immediate or 
gradual aging degradation of a structure, system or component. Examples include heat, steam, chemicals, 
radiation, and electrical cycling. 
 
 
27 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
structures, systems or components (SSCs) 
A general term encompassing all of the elements (items) of a facility or activity that contribute to 
protection and safety. Structures are the passive elements: buildings, vessels, shielding, etc. A system 
comprises several components, assembled in such a way as to perform a specific (active) function. A 
component is a discrete element of a system. Examples are wires, transistors, integrated circuits, motors, 
relays, solenoids, pipes, fittings, pumps, tanks, and valves. 
testing 
The observation or measurement of condition or functional indicators under controlled conditions to 
verify that the current performance of a structure, system or component conforms to acceptance criteria. 
time-limited assumptions 
Assumptions used in certain facility- or SSC-specific safety or design analyses that are based on an 
explicitly specified length of facility or SSC life; for example, metal fatigue calculation, pressurized 
thermal shock analysis, radiation-induced deformation and embrittlement, thermal aging, loss of material, 
and equipment qualification of electrical equipment, instrumentation and control equipment, and cables 
are included in analyses. 
 
28 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
References 
1. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Safety Standards Series, Safety Guide, No. NS-G 2.12, 
Ageing Management for Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 2009 
2. IAEA, Safety Report Series No. 57, Safe Long Term Operation of Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 
2008 
3. Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Nuclear Energy Agency; Glossary of 
Nuclear Power Plant Ageing, Paris, France, 1999 
4. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC), RD-310, Safety Analysis for Nuclear Power Plants, 
Ottawa, 2008 
5. CNSC, GD-310, Guidance on Safety Analysis for Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2012 
6. CNSC, S-294, Probabilistic Safety Assessment (PSA) for Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2005 
7. CNSC, RD-337, Design of New Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2008 
8. CSA Group, CSA N285.0, General requirements for pressure-retaining systems and components in 
CANDU nuclear power plants, Mississauga, 2012 
9. CSA Group, CSA N286, Management system requirements for nuclear facilities, Mississauga, 2012 
10. CSA Group, CSA N287.1, General requirements for concrete containment structures for nuclear 
power plants, Mississauga, 1993 
11. CSA Group, CSA N291, Requirements for safety-related structures for CANDU nuclear power 
plants, Mississauga, 2008 
12. CSA Group, CSA N285.4, Periodic inspection of CANDU nuclear power plant components, 
Mississauga, 2009 
13. CSA Group, CSA N285.5, Periodic inspection of CANDU nuclear power plant containment 
components, Mississauga, 2008 
14. CSA Group, CSA N287.7, In-service examination and testing requirements for concrete containment 
structures for nuclear power plants, Mississauga, 2008 
15. CNSC, RD/GD-98, Reliability Programs for Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2012 
16. CNSC, RD/GD-210, Maintenance Programs for Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2012 
17. CSA Group, CSA N290.13, Environmental qualification of equipment for CANDU nuclear power 
plants, Mississauga, 2005  
18. CNSC, RD-360, Life Extension of Nuclear Power Plants, Ottawa, 2008 
19. IAEA, Safety Standards Series, Specific Safety Guide, SSG-25, Periodic Safety Review for Nuclear 
Power Plants, Vienna, 2013 
20. IAEA, Safety Report Series No. 82, Ageing Management for Nuclear Power Plants: International 
Generic Ageing Lessons Learned (IGALL), Vienna, 2015 
 
29 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
Additional Information 
The following documents contain additional information that may be of interest to persons involved in 
designing and implementing an aging management program 
1. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Safety Standards Series, Safety Requirements, NS-R-1, 
Safety of Nuclear Power Plants: Design, Vienna, 2000 
2. IAEA, Safety Standards Series, Safety Guide, NS-G-2.6, Maintenance, Surveillance and In-Service 
Inspection in Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 2002 
3. IAEA, Safety Standards Series, Safety Guide, NS-G-2.4, The Operating Organization for Nuclear 
Power Plants, Vienna, 2001 
4. IAEA, Safety Standards Series, Safety Requirements, NS-R-2, Safety of Nuclear Power Plants: 
Operation, Vienna, 2000 
5. IAEA, Safety Report Series No. 3, Equipment Qualification in Operational Nuclear Power Plants: 
Upgrading, Preserving and Reviewing, Vienna, 1998 
6. IAEA, Safety Report Series No. 62, Proactive Management of Ageing of Nuclear Power Plants, 
Vienna, 2009 
7. IAEA, Technical Document, TECDOC 1197, Assessment and Management of Ageing of Major 
Nuclear Power Plant Components Important to Safety: CANDU Reactor Assemblies, Vienna, 2001 
8. IAEA, Technical Document, TECDOC 1188, Assessment and Management of Ageing of Major 
Nuclear Power Plant Components Important to Safety: In-containment Instrumentation and Control 
cables, Volumes I & II, Vienna, 2000 
9. IAEA, Technical Document, TECDOC 1025, Assessment and Management of Ageing of Major 
Nuclear Power Plant Components Important to Safety: Concrete Containment Buildings, Vienna, 
1998 
10. IAEA, Technical Document, TECDOC 981, Assessment and Management of Ageing of Major 
Nuclear Power Plant Components Important to Safety: Steam Generators, Vienna, 1997 
11. IAEA, Safety Report Series No. 15, Implementation and Review of a Nuclear Power Plant Ageing 
Management Programme, Vienna, 1999 
12. United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, NUREG-1801, Generic Aging Lessons Learned 
(GALL) Report, Volumes 1 and 2, Washington, DC, 2011 
13. Institute of Nuclear Power Operations, INPO AP-913 Revision 1, Equipment Reliability Process 
Description, Atlanta, Georgia, 2001 
 
30 
 
March 2014 
REGDOC-2.6.3, Aging Management 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
Information dissemination 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website at nuclearsafety.gc.ca/eng/acts-and-regulations/regulatory-
documents 
 
 
31 
 
