 
 
 
 
 
 
Waste Management 
Waste Management, Volume II: 
Management of Uranium Mine 
Waste Rock and Mill Tailings  
 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Volume II 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2018
 
 
 
 
 
 
Waste Management, Volume II:  
Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.11.1, Volume II 
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2018 
Cat. No. CC172-190/2-2-2018E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-28348-7 
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Gestion des déchets, tome II : Gestion des stériles des mines 
d'uranium et des résidus des usines de concentration d'uranium 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC website. To request a copy of the document in English or 
French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Fax: 613-995-5086 
Email: cnsc.info.ccsn@canada.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Twitter: @CNSC_CCSN 
LinkedIn: linkedin.com/company/cnsc-ccsn 
 
Publishing history 
March 2012  
 
RD/GD-370, Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
July 2004 
 
P-290, Managing Radioactive Waste 
 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
 
 
i 
Preface 
Regulatory document REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II: Management of Uranium Mine 
Waste Rock and Mill Tailings, sets out the requirements of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
(CNSC) for the sound management of mine waste rock and mill tailings during site preparation, 
construction, operation and decommissioning of new uranium mine or mill projects and/or of new waste 
management facilities at existing uranium mines and mills in Canada to ensure the protection of the 
environment and the health and safety of people. 
This regulatory document also provides guidance to applicants regarding the CNSC's expectations for 
new mining projects throughout Canada on the management of waste rock and tailings generated by 
uranium mining and milling operations. CNSC staff use this document when making regulatory decisions 
regarding the management of mine waste.  
Applicants for new uranium mine and/or mill projects, or new projects at existing mine and mill sites, are 
required to submit a licence application to the CNSC. A licensing decision is supported by an 
environmental assessment of alternative means to manage mineralized waste rock or tailings, and 
provides the rationale for the preferred waste management method. The licence application includes the 
results of the environmental assessment and provides a description of the management method for safe 
long-term storage of mineralized waste rock and mill tailings. The CNSC staff reviews the information 
contained in the environmental assessment and in the application, and makes recommendations to the 
Commission Tribunal on the acceptability of the proposed management method. 
This document replaces RD/GD-370, Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings, 
published in March 2012, and P-290, Managing Radioactive Waste, published in July 2004. This 
regulatory document should be applied in conjunction with REGDOC-2.9.1, Environmental Protection: 
Environmental Principles, Assessments and Protection Measures, version 1.1. 
In this document, “shall” is used to express a requirement; i.e., a provision that a licensee or licence 
applicant is obliged to satisfy in order to comply with this regulatory document. “Should” is used to 
express guidance, or that which is advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is 
permissible within the limits of this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or 
capability. 
Note: In 2013, the CNSC adopted a revised regulatory framework structure with a new system for naming 
and numbering regulatory documents. This document has been published as part of the CNSC’s initiative 
to bring regulatory documents that were published before the current framework was adopted into the 
new system. The requirements and guidance in this document have not changed.  
 
 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction 
........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.3 
Relevant regulations ........................................................................................................... 1 
1.4 
National and international standards 
................................................................................... 2 
2. 
Requirements for Managing Mine Waste........................................................................3 
3. 
Guidance on Managing Mine Waste ................................................................................3 
3.1 
Guidance on selecting a mine waste management alternative ............................................ 3 
3.2 
Assessment of alternatives 
.................................................................................................. 4 
3.3 
Monitoring .......................................................................................................................... 4 
4. 
Performance Measurement 
...............................................................................................5 
Appendix A: Principles for Managing Radioactive Waste ........................................................6 
A.1 
Purpose................................................................................................................................ 6 
A.2 
Scope 
................................................................................................................................... 6 
A.3 
Definition ............................................................................................................................ 6 
A.4 
Background 
......................................................................................................................... 6 
A.5 
Policy statement 
.................................................................................................................. 7 
Glossary ..........................................................................................................................................8 
References 
.....................................................................................................................................11 
 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
1 
 
Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
Purpose 
This regulatory document sets out the requirements of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
(CNSC) for the sound management of mine waste rock and mill tailings during site preparation, 
construction, operation and decommissioning of new uranium mine or mill projects and/or of new 
waste management projects at existing uranium mines and mills in Canada, to ensure the 
protection of the environment and the health and safety of people.  
1.2 
Scope 
Applicants for new uranium mine and/or mill projects, or new waste management projects at 
existing mine and mill sites, are required to submit a licence application to the CNSC. A licensing 
decision is supported by an environmental assessment of alternative means to manage 
mineralized waste rock or tailings, and provides the rationale for the preferred waste management 
method. The licence application includes the results of the environmental assessment and 
provides a description of the management method for safe long-term storage of mineralized waste 
rock and mill tailings. The CNSC staff reviews the information contained in the environmental 
assessment and in the application, and makes recommendations to the Commission Tribunal on 
the acceptability of the proposed management method. 
In addition to setting out the requirements, this regulatory document provides guidance to 
applicants regarding the CNSC's expectations for new mining projects throughout Canada on the 
management of mineralized waste rock and tailings generated by uranium mining and milling 
operations. CNSC staff use this regulatory document when making regulatory decisions regarding 
the management of mine waste. 
Note that prospecting for uranium or surface exploration activities are not licensed by the CNSC. 
1.3 
Relevant regulations 
The following provisions of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA) and regulations made 
under the NSCA are relevant to this regulatory document: 
• 
paragraph 3(a) of the NSCA states “The purpose of this Act is to provide for 
(a) the limitation, to a reasonable level and in a manner that is consistent with Canada's 
international obligations, of the risks to national security, the health and safety of persons and 
the environment that are associated with the development, production and use of nuclear 
energy and the production, possession and use of nuclear substances, prescribed equipment 
and prescribed information;” 
• 
paragraph 24(4)(b) of the NSCA states “No licence may be issued, renewed, amended or 
replaced — and no authorization to transfer one given — unless, in the opinion of the 
Commission, the applicant […] 
(b) will, in carrying on that activity, make adequate provision for the protection of the 
environment, the health and safety of persons and the maintenance of national security and 
measures required to implement international obligations to which Canada has agreed.” 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
2 
 
• 
paragraph 3(1)(j) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states “An 
application for a licence shall contain the following information: […] 
(j) the name, quantity, form, origin and volume of any radioactive waste or hazardous waste 
that may result from the activity to be licensed, including waste that may be stored, managed, 
processed or disposed of at the site of the activity to be licensed, and the proposed method for 
managing and disposing of that waste;”  
• 
paragraph 3(1.1)(b) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations states “The 
Commission or a designated officer authorized under paragraph 37(2)(c) of the Act, may 
require any other information that is necessary to enable the Commission or the designated 
officer to determine whether the applicant […] (b) will, in carrying on that activity, make 
adequate provision for the protection of the environment, the health and safety of persons and 
the maintenance of national security and measures required to implement international 
obligations to which Canada has agreed.”  
• 
paragraph 5(1)(h) of the Uranium Mines and Mills Regulations (UMMR) states “An 
application for a licence to prepare a site for and construct a uranium mine shall contain the 
following information in addition to the information required by section 3 and 
subsection 4(2): […] (h) the anticipated quantities and grade of ore and waste rock that will 
be removed, their proposed storage location, and the proposed method, program and 
schedule, for their removal and disposal;” 
 
REGDOC-2.9.1, Environmental Protection: Environmental Principles, Assessments and 
Protection Measures, version 1.1 [1], and appendix A, Principles for managing radioactive waste, 
also apply to the management of mineralized waste rock and mill tailings. 
 
The following federal legislation is also relevant to the control of mine waste and mill tailings: 
• 
Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999 (CEPA 1999) [2], particularly 
paragraphs 2(1)(a), (a.1), (b) and (i), and paragraphs 2(1.1)(a), (b) and (c) 
• 
Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, 2012 (CEAA) [3], particularly paragraphs 15(1)(a) 
and (c), and 19(1)(a) 
• 
Fisheries Act (FA) [4], particularly subsections 36(3), 36(6), 38(5), and paragraphs 34(a) 
to (d) and 36(4)(a) and (b) 
• 
Metal and Diamond Mining Effluent Regulations (MMER) [5], particularly subsections 5(1) 
and 27.1(1) 
In order for a natural water body frequented by fish to be designated as a tailings impoundment 
area, it must be added to Schedule 2 of the MMER, which requires an amendment to the MMER. 
This regulatory amendment triggers a federal environmental assessment according to the CEAA. 
The environmental assessment must undertake an analysis of alternatives for the disposal of the 
mine waste, based on environmental, technical, economic and socio-economic criteria. 
1.4 
National and international standards 
This regulatory document is consistent with the philosophy of modern national and international 
guides and standards for the management of mine waste. In particular, this regulatory document is 
based in part on the following national and international publications: 
• 
Guidelines for the Assessment of Alternatives for Mine Waste Disposal, Environment and 
Climate Change Canada (ECCC) [6] 
• 
Environmental Code of Practice for Metal Mines, ECCC [7] 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
3 
 
• 
Management of Radioactive Waste from the Mining and Milling of Ores, Safety Guide 
WS-G-1.2, International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) [8] 
• 
Reference Document on Best Available Techniques for Management of Tailings and Waste-
Rock in Mining Activities, European Commission [9] 
• 
Best Practice in Environmental Management of Uranium Mining, Nuclear Energy Series 
No. NF-T-1.2, IAEA [10] 
2. 
Requirements for Managing Mine Waste 
The use of natural water bodies frequented by fish shall be avoided to the extent practicable for 
the long-term management of mineralized waste rock and tailings. 
Licensees shall manage mineralized waste rock and tailings: 
• 
to maximize the use of:  
• 
mine workings, such as open pits and underground developments 
• 
natural and/or engineered barriers between the waste materials and the environment 
• 
controls designed to minimize releases to the environment 
• 
with due consideration of the characteristics of the mineralized waste rock or tailings, and 
best management practices 
• 
to ensure the long-term protection of Canada's terrestrial and aquatic environment, as well as 
the protection of current and future generations 
Overburden and clean rock shall be used as construction material, and/or as a resource, and/or 
managed on surface through effective rock segregation programs, to the extent practicable and in 
a manner that is consistent with the concept of waste minimization. 
The design of mineralized waste rock and tailings management systems shall minimize the 
reliance on active institutional controls post decommissioning.  
3. 
Guidance on Managing Mine Waste 
This section clarifies the CNSC's expectations on selecting a mine waste management alternative 
and on avoiding, to the extent practicable, the use of natural water bodies frequented by fish for 
the long-term management of mine waste. 
3.1 
Guidance on selecting a mine waste management alternative 
In general, the use of water bodies frequented by fish for the management of mine waste that 
contains a deleterious substance requires:  
• 
authorization by the Governor in Council by way of a regulatory amendment to list the water 
body on Schedule 2 of the MMER 
• 
approval of a habitat compensation plan by Fisheries and Oceans Canada (DFO) 
• 
a licence from the CNSC 
Environment and Climate Change Canada provides guidance [6] on the assessment of alternatives 
for mine waste disposal in water bodies frequented by fish. This guidance should be used for all 
metal mining operations, including uranium mining, when the proponent's preferred option 
included the use of natural water bodies frequented by fish. 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
4 
 
Applicants should select the most suitable mine waste disposal alternative from an environmental, 
technical, economic and socio-economic perspective, and obtain input and strive to achieve 
consensus on the decision from a broad stakeholder group. In order to do so, CNSC staff 
recommends applicants conduct an appropriate assessment of all mine waste disposal alternatives 
to transparently demonstrate how the preferred option was selected. This analysis may be 
conducted pursuant to ECCC 2011 [6] or a similar means that is commensurate with the risk to 
the environment and level of public concern.  
3.2 
Assessment of alternatives 
An assessment of alternatives objectively and rigorously considers all available options for mine 
waste disposal. The assessment considers predicted quality and quantity of releases to the 
environment, and the predicted effects on the environment. The assessment of alternatives should 
also consider the full cost of each option throughout the project lifecycle and its associated 
benefits. 
 
The major steps of the assessment include: 
• 
development of a list of all possible candidate mine waste disposal options, with the input 
from stakeholders and without prior judgments 
• 
screening of options to reduce the number and to provide assurance that any of the remaining 
options could prove to be the preferred option 
• 
characterization of the remaining alternatives to ensure proper consideration of every aspect 
and nuance and the comparison of alternatives in a clear and concise format, to ensure 
complete transparency of the decision process 
• 
identification of evaluation criteria that are linked to an effect and that easily differentiate the 
alternatives 
• 
inclusion of quantitative value judgment in the decision process by scoring and weighting all 
evaluation criteria under the environmental, technical, economic and socio-economic 
characteristics of each alternative 
• 
an assessment of the sensitivity of the decision-making process 
 
The results of this assessment of alternatives are documented and submitted to CNSC staff as part 
of an environmental assessment. The results are verified through the subsequent licence 
application. The submission should provide a clear and concise summary of the findings of each 
step, using comparative tables and clear descriptive text. Detailed supporting information related 
to cost estimate breakdowns, geochemical assessment and contaminant transport modeling should 
also be included. The CNSC, as the responsible authority, consults with other federal and 
provincial agencies (i.e., ECCC, DFO, Natural Resources Canada, and provincial jurisdictions) to 
ensure that all regulatory requirements are satisfied by the final waste management plan. 
3.3 
Monitoring 
The applicant should also conduct follow-up monitoring and develop an ongoing characterization 
plan to ensure the chosen mine waste management method(s) are undertaken and verified 
throughout the lifecycle of the project. For example, clean waste rock and overburden should be 
sorted and stored separate from the mineralized waste rock and tailings. Commitments to 
establish this type of quality control and verification should be made initially, and further detailed 
in subsequent phases of the project – during siting, construction and operation. 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
5 
 
4. 
Performance Measurement 
Adaptive management is essential to the sound management of mine waste management projects 
[11]. Adaptive management is a planned and systematic process for continuously improving 
environmental management practices by learning from their outcomes. It may not always result in 
changes to the mine waste management system already in place, but may help improve the design 
of future waste management projects, by ensuring that best management practices improve as 
science evolves with time. In an adaptive management process, environmental managers monitor 
the effects of the selected management action, and adjust the action based on the monitoring 
results [11].  
Monitoring programs should be designed to effectively evaluate the performance of the waste 
management approach against predicted or required outcomes; this will help to ensure that long-
term objectives can be met. Actual field-scale data resulting from the performance monitoring 
program should be used to refine and calibrate models used in the design of mine waste 
management facilities. 
Performance indicators should be used to reflect how well elements of the mine waste 
management plan are performing against predictions made in the environmental assessment and 
updated throughout the lifecycle of the mine waste management facility. Examples of 
performance indicators include: 
• 
fluxes of contaminants from the waste facility compared to anticipated quality 
• 
percolation through a cover or liner system compared to estimated values 
• 
concentrations of contaminants in specific environmental media (for example, groundwater 
and surface water quality as compared to anticipated quality) 
• 
sublethal or acute toxicity testing for relevant species of fish, benthic invertebrates and algae 
• 
biological indicators, such as benthic community indexes, fish usage (i.e., contaminant levels 
in fish tissue) and fish health indicators 
 
If performance indicators vary significantly from the predictions, then the management plan may 
need to be modified to achieve the desired performance [11]. Performance indicators should be 
presented by the licensee and used to determine what will be monitored, how long the monitoring 
will be conducted, and when contingency measures and adaptive management should be initiated. 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
6 
 
Appendix A: Principles for Managing Radioactive Waste 
A.1 
Purpose 
These principles are intended to promote:  
• 
the implementation of measures to manage radioactive waste so as to 
o protect the health and safety of persons and the environment  
o provide for the maintenance of national security 
o achieve conformity with measures of control and international obligations to which Canada has 
agreed 
• 
consistent national and international standards and practices for the management and control of 
radioactive waste 
A.2 
Scope 
These principles describe the philosophy that underlies the CNSC’s approach to regulating the 
management of radioactive waste and the principles that are taken into account when making a regulatory 
decision concerning radioactive waste management. These principles are relevant to all waste 
management phases, practices and considerations, including the generation, handling, processing, 
controlled release, storage, disposal and abandonment of radioactive waste.  
These principles also express the CNSC’s commitment to consulting and cooperating with provincial, 
national and international agencies on matters concerning harmonization of the regulation of radioactive 
waste management in Canada. 
A.3 
Definition 
The term “radioactive waste” means any material (liquid, gaseous or solid) that contains a radioactive 
“nuclear substance,” as defined in section 2 of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA) and which the 
owner has declared to be waste. In addition to containing nuclear substances, radioactive waste may also 
contain non-radioactive “hazardous substances,” as defined in section 1 of the General Nuclear Safety 
and Control Regulations.  
A.4 
Background 
The CNSC regulates the use of nuclear energy and materials to protect the health and safety of persons, 
the environment and national security and to respect Canada's international commitments on the peaceful 
use of nuclear energy. Under section 26 of the NSCA, subject to exemptions authorized by the 
regulations, no person may possess, transfer, import, export, use, abandon, mine, produce, refine, convert, 
enrich, process, reprocess, package, transport, manage, store or dispose of a nuclear substance, except in 
accordance with a licence issued by the CNSC.  
Since all radioactive waste contains nuclear substances, radioactive waste is subject to the NSCA and its 
regulations. Stated explicitly, all of the exclusions, prohibitions, requirements, exemptions and limitations 
imposed by the NSCA, the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations, the Radiation Protection 
Regulations, the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations, the Class II Nuclear Facilities and Prescribed 
Equipment Regulations, the Uranium Mines and Mills Regulations, the Nuclear Substances and 
Radiation Devices Regulations, the Packaging and Transport of Nuclear Substances Regulations, the 
Nuclear Security Regulations, and the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Import and Export Control Regulations 
apply to radioactive waste.  
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
7 
 
Licensed activities produce many types of radioactive waste, such as uranium mill tailings, medical 
isotope waste, spent nuclear fuel, and cleaning material contaminated with low levels of nuclear 
substances; each presenting its own level of hazard. Since all nuclear substances associated with licensed 
activities will eventually become waste, the safe long-term management of that waste is taken into 
consideration during the review process for any licensed activity.  
A.5 
Policy statement 
When making regulatory decisions concerning the management of radioactive waste, it is the policy of the 
CNSC to consider the extent to which the owners of the waste have addressed the following principles:  
a) The generation of radioactive waste is minimized to the extent practicable by the implementation of 
design measures, operating procedures and decommissioning practices;  
b) The management of radioactive waste is commensurate with its radiological, chemical and biological 
hazard to the health and safety of persons and the environment and to national security;  
c) The assessment of future impacts of radioactive waste on the health and safety of persons and the 
environment encompasses the period of time when the maximum impact is predicted to occur;  
d) The predicted impacts on the health and safety of persons and the environment from the management 
of radioactive waste are no greater than the impacts that are permissible in Canada at the time of the 
regulatory decision;  
e) The measures needed to prevent unreasonable risk to present and to future generations from the 
hazards of radioactive waste are developed, funded and implemented as soon as reasonably 
practicable; and  
f) The trans-border effects on the health and safety of persons and the environment that could result 
from the management of radioactive waste in Canada are not greater than the effects experienced in 
Canada.  
It is also CNSC policy to consult and cooperate with provincial, national and international agencies to:  
g) promote harmonized regulation and consistent national and international standards for the 
management of radioactive waste; and  
h) achieve conformity with the measures of control and international obligations to which Canada has 
agreed concerning radioactive waste. 
 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
8 
 
Glossary 
adaptive management 
A planned and systematic process for continuously improving environmental management practices by 
learning from their outcomes.  
assessment 
The process, and the result, of systematically evaluating the hazards associated with sources and 
practices, and associated protection and safety measures, aimed at quantifying performance measures for 
comparison with criteria. Assessment should be distinguished from analysis. Assessment is aimed at 
providing information that forms the basis of a decision about whether something is satisfactory or not. 
Various kinds of analysis may be used as tools in doing this. Hence, an assessment may include a number 
of analyses. 
best practice 
An industry-accepted design, process or procedure that consistently produces superior results. 
clean waste rock 
Rock which does not have the potential to release hazardous and/or nuclear substances that could have a 
significant adverse effect on human health or be deleterious to the environment. Clean rock may still 
require management for other reasons, such as to control erosion to prevent siltation of local surface water 
bodies. 
control 
Environmental management procedures or engineering techniques that reduce the release of hazardous 
and nuclear substances to the environment. 
deleterious substance 
As defined in the Fisheries Act [4]: 
1. Any substance that, if added to any water, would degrade or alter or form part of a process of 
degradation or alteration of the quality of that water so that it is rendered or is likely to be rendered 
deleterious to fish or fish habitat or to the use by man of fish that frequent that water 
2. Any water that contains a substance in such quantity or concentration, or that has been so treated, 
processed or changed, by heat or other means, from a natural state that it would, if added to any other 
water, degrade or alter or form part of a process of degradation or alteration of the quality of that water so 
that it is rendered or is likely to be rendered deleterious to fish or fish habitat or to the use by man of fish 
that frequent that water 
frequented by fish 
See “water frequented by fish”. 
institutional controls 
The control of residual risks at a site after it has been decommissioned. Institutional controls can include 
active measures (requiring activities on the site such as water treatment, monitoring, surveillance and 
maintenance) and passive measures (that do not require activities on the site, such as land use restrictions, 
markers, etc.). 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
9 
 
licensing basis  
A set of requirements and documents for a regulated facility or activity comprising: 
• 
the regulatory requirements set out in the applicable laws and regulations 
• 
the conditions and safety and control measures described in the facility’s or activity’s licence and the 
documents directly referenced in that licence 
• 
the safety and control measures described in the licence application and the documents needed to 
support that licence application 
long term  
In mineralized waste rock and tailings disposal, any period of time after active institutional controls can 
be expected to cease. 
mineralized waste rock 
Rock which has the potential to release hazardous and/or nuclear substances that could have a significant 
adverse effect on human health or be deleterious to the environment. Mineralized waste rock may be 
further segregated based on radiological content, contaminants of concern (e.g., nickel, arsenic), and acid 
generating potential. Mineralized waste rock is often referred as to special waste rock. 
mine waste 
Includes tailings and mineralized waste rock but does not include overburden and clean rock. 
nuclear substance 
As defined in the NSCA, means: 
•deuterium, thorium, uranium or an element with an atomic number greater than 92 
•a derivative or compound of deuterium, thorium, uranium or of an element with an atomic number 
greater than 92 
•a radioactive nuclide 
•a substance that is prescribed as being capable of releasing nuclear energy or as being required for the 
production or use of nuclear energy 
•a radioactive by-product of the development, production or use of nuclear energy 
•a radioactive substance or radioactive thing that was used for the development or production, or in 
connection with the use, of nuclear energy 
overburden 
Generally means the material overlying the ore deposit, including rock as well as soil and other 
unconsolidated (loose) materials. For this document, the term overburden is restricted to soil and other 
unconsolidated materials, including glacial deposits, sand and sediment. Overburden may still require 
management for other reasons, such as soil contamination or to control erosion to prevent siltation of 
local surface water bodies. 
pollution prevention 
The use of processes, practices, materials, products, substances or energy that avoid or minimize the 
creation of pollutants and waste and reduce the overall risk to the environment or human health. 
project lifecycle 
Includes all ongoing activities during the main licence granted by the CNSC: preparing the site, 
constructing, operating, and decommissioning of a mine project. 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
10 
 
tailings 
The waste material and water mixture that is left over after the mill removes the valuable rocks. The rock 
material in tailings is usually the size of sand grains or smaller. 
waste rock 
Rock which does not contain any minerals in sufficient concentration to be considered ore, but which 
must be removed in the mining process to provide access to the ore. Waste rock includes both mineralized 
and clean waste rock.  
water frequented by fish 
As defined in the Fisheries Act [4], means Canadian fisheries waters. 
 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
11 
 
References 
1. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC), REGDOC-2.9.1, Environmental Protection: 
Environmental Principles, Assessments and Protection Measures, Version 1.1, Ottawa, Canada, 
2017 
2. Canadian Environmental Protection Act (S.C. 1999, c.33) 
3. Canadian Environmental Assessment Act 2012 (S.C. 2012, C.19, s.52) 
4. Fisheries Act (R.S.C., 1985, c.F-14) 
5. Metal and Diamond Mining Effluent Regulations (SOR/2002-222) 
6. Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC), Guidelines For The Assessment Of 
Alternatives For Mine Waste Disposal, Ottawa, Canada, 2011  
7. ECCC, Environmental Code of Practice for Metal Mines, Ottawa, Canada, 2009 
8. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safety Standards Series No. WS-G-1.2, 
Management of Radioactive Waste from the Mining and Milling of Ores, Vienna, Austria, 2002 
9. European Commission, Reference Document on Best Available Techniques for Management of 
Tailings and Waste-Rock in Mining Activities, Seville, Spain, 2009 
10. IAEA Safety Standards Series No. NF-T-1.2, Best Practice in Environmental Management of 
Uranium Mining, Vienna, Austria, 2010 
11. Mine Environment Neutral Drainage (MEND) Program, Prediction Manual for Drainage 
Chemistry from Sulphidic Geologic Materials, MEND Report 1.20.1, Natural Resources Canada, 
CANMET Mining and Mineral Sciences Laboratories, editor: William A. Price, Smithers, British 
Columbia, Canada, 2009 
November 2018 
 
REGDOC-2.11.1, Waste Management, Volume II:  
 Management of Uranium Mine Waste Rock and Mill Tailings 
 
 
12 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
3.6  
Glossary of CNSC terminology 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website. 
 
