 
 
 
Operating Performance 
Accident Management 
 
 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 2015
 
 
 
Accident Management  
Regulatory Document REGDOC-2.3.2, Version 2 
© Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) 2015 
PWGSC catalogue number CC172-116/2015E-PDF 
ISBN 978-0-660-03338-9 
Extracts from this document may be reproduced for individual use without permission provided the 
source is fully acknowledged. However, reproduction in whole or in part for purposes of resale or 
redistribution requires prior written permission from the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. 
Également publié en français sous le titre : Conduite de l’exploitation : Gestion des accidents 
Document availability 
This document can be viewed on the CNSC Web site at nuclearsafety.gc.ca. To request a copy of the 
document in English or French, please contact: 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
280 Slater Street 
P.O. Box 1046, Station B 
Ottawa, Ontario K1P 5S9 
CANADA 
Tel.: 613-995-5894 or 1-800-668-5284 (in Canada only) 
Facsimile: 613-995-5086 
Email: info@cnsc-ccsn.gc.ca 
Website: nuclearsafety.gc.ca 
Facebook: facebook.com/CanadianNuclearSafetyCommission 
YouTube: youtube.com/cnscccsn 
Publishing history 
October 2014 
 
Version 1 
September 2015 
 
Version 2 
 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
Preface 
This regulatory document is part of the CNSC’s operating performance series of regulatory documents, 
which also covers the conduct of licensed activities. The full list of regulatory document series is included 
at the end of this document and can also be found on the CNSC’s website. 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, sets out the requirements and guidance of the Canadian Nuclear 
Safety Commission (CNSC) for the development, implementation and validation of integrated accident 
management for reactor facilities. 
Accident management is a commitment to the defence-in-depth approach and is an important component 
in the licensee’s overall capabilities to ensure the risks from nuclear reactors remain low. Defence in depth 
is applied to all organizational, behavioural, and design-related safety and security activities to ensure they 
are subject to overlapping provisions. It is important for licensees to implement and maintain operational 
procedures, guidelines and adequate capabilities to deal with abnormal situations and accidents, including 
severe accidents. This regulatory document specifies safety principles, high-level requirements and 
supporting guidelines that allow licensees to develop, implement, and evaluate integrated accident 
management, which includes components that address severe accident management. 
Key principles and elements used in developing this document are consistent with International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA) safety principles, guides and reports, such as the following: 
 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safety Fundamentals No. SF-1, IAEA Safety Standards 
for Protection People and the Environment - Fundamental Safety Principles [1] 
 
IAEA Safety Standards Series No. NS-G-2.15, STI/PUB/1376, Severe Accident Management 
Programmes for Nuclear Power Plants - Safety Guide [2] 
 
IAEA Safety Reports Series No. 32, STI/PUB/1167, Implementation of Accident Management 
Programmes in Nuclear Power Plants [3] 
 
IAEA Services Series No. 9, IAEA-SVS-09, Guidelines for the Review of Accident Management 
Programmes in Nuclear Power Plants [4] 
This document reflects lessons learned from the Fukushima nuclear event of March 2011, and addresses 
findings from the CNSC Fukushima Task Force Report. This document supersedes REGDOC-2.3.2, 
Severe Accident Management Programs for Nuclear Reactors, published in September 2013. 
REGDOC-2.3.2 is intended to form part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity within the 
scope of the document. It is intended for inclusion in licences as either part of the conditions and safety 
and control measures in a licence, or as part of the safety and control measures to be described in a licence 
application and the documents needed to support that application. 
For proposed new facilities, this document will be used to assess new licence applications for reactor 
facilities.  
The guidance in this document outlines how integrated accident management may be developed, but 
facility accident management measures may be established differently. For existing reactor facilities, a 
separate and distinct accident management is neither required nor expected. 
Guidance contained in this document exists to inform the applicant, to elaborate further on requirements or 
to provide direction to licensees and applicants on how to meet requirements. It also provides more 
information about how CNSC staff evaluate specific problems or data during their review of licence 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
applications. Applicants are expected to review and consider guidance; should they choose not to follow it, 
they should explain how their chosen alternate approach meets regulatory requirements. 
An applicant or licensee may put forward a case to demonstrate that the intent of a requirement is 
addressed by other means and demonstrated with supportable evidence. 
For existing facilities, the requirements contained in this document do not apply unless they have been 
included, in whole or in part, in the licence or licensing basis.  
A graded approach, commensurate with risk, may be defined and used when applying the requirements 
and guidance contained in this regulatory document. The use of a graded approach is not a relaxation of 
requirements. With a graded approach, the application of requirements is commensurate with the risks and 
particular characteristics of the facility or activity. 
The requirements and guidance in this document are consistent with modern national and international 
practices addressing issues and elements that control and enhance nuclear safety. In particular, they 
establish a modern, risk-informed approach to the categorization of accidents – one that considers a full 
spectrum of possible events, including events of greatest consequence to the public. 
Important note: Where referenced in a licence either directly or indirectly (such as through licensee-
referenced documents), this document is part of the licensing basis for a regulated facility or activity.  
The licensing basis sets the boundary conditions for acceptable performance at a regulated facility or 
activity, and establishes the basis for the CNSC’s compliance program for that regulated facility or 
activity.  
Where this document is part of the licensing basis, the word “shall” is used to express a requirement to 
be satisfied by the licensee or licence applicant. “Should” is used to express guidance or that which is 
advised. “May” is used to express an option or that which is advised or permissible within the limits of 
this regulatory document. “Can” is used to express possibility or capability. 
Nothing contained in this document is to be construed as relieving any licensee from any other 
pertinent requirements. It is the licensee’s responsibility to identify and comply with all applicable 
regulations and licence conditions. 
 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
1. 
Introduction ..........................................................................................................................1 
1.1 
Purpose 
................................................................................................................................... 
1 
1.2 
Scope 
...................................................................................................................................... 
1 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
................................................................................................................ 
2 
1.4 
National and international documents ................................................................................... 
3 
2. 
Accident Management and its Links with Emergency Preparedness and the 
Principle of Defence-In-Depth ............................................................................................4 
3. 
Requirements for Integrated Accident Management .......................................................6 
3.1 
Goals of accident management 
.............................................................................................. 
6 
3.2 
General requirements 
............................................................................................................. 
7 
3.3 
Equipment and instrumentation requirements 
....................................................................... 
7 
3.4 
Requirements for procedures and guidelines......................................................................... 
8 
3.5 
Requirements for human and organizational performance 
.................................................... 
8 
4. 
Guidance for Developing Integrated Accident Management 
...........................................9 
4.1 
General considerations 
........................................................................................................... 
9 
4.2 
Establishment of integrated accident management ............................................................... 
9 
4.2.1 
Identification of challenges to reactor safety functions .......................................... 10 
4.2.2 
Identification of reactor capabilities 
....................................................................... 11 
4.2.3 
Development of strategies and measures ............................................................... 11 
4.2.4 
Supporting analyses 
................................................................................................ 12 
4.2.5 
Development of procedures and guidelines ........................................................... 13 
4.3 
Other considerations ............................................................................................................ 
14 
4.3.1 
Equipment provisions 
............................................................................................. 14 
4.3.2 
Role of instrumentation .......................................................................................... 15 
4.3.3 
Organizational responsibilities ............................................................................... 15 
4.3.4 
Communication interfaces 
...................................................................................... 16 
5. 
Guidance for Implementing Integrated Accident Management 
.................................... 17 
5.1 
Integration of procedures, guidelines and arrangements ..................................................... 
17 
5.2 
Verification and validation of procedures and guidelines ................................................... 
17 
5.3 
Human and organizational performance 
.............................................................................. 
18 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
 
 
5.4 
Training 
................................................................................................................................ 
18 
6. 
Guidance for Validating Integrated Accident Management ......................................... 19 
6.1 
Review of integrated accident management ........................................................................ 
19 
6.2 
Evaluation of systems and equipment ................................................................................. 
20 
6.3 
Assessment of resources ...................................................................................................... 
20 
7. 
Guidance for Documentation of Integrated Accident Management .............................. 21 
Appendix A: Overlapping Provisions of Emergency Preparedness and 
Integrated Accident Management 
.............................................................................................. 
22 
List of Abbreviations ..................................................................................................................... 23 
Glossary .......................................................................................................................................... 24 
References 
....................................................................................................................................... 28 
 
 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
1 
 
Accident Management 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1 
Purpose 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, sets out the requirements and guidance of the Canadian 
Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC) for the development, implementation and validation of 
integrated accident management for reactor facilities. 
1.2 
Scope 
Accident management includes multiple components such as equipment and instrumentation, 
procedures and guidelines, human and organizational performance, and it interfaces with many 
programs established for a reactor facility. An integrated accident management approach is 
required to manage any accident affecting a reactor facility. Accidents can result from all kinds of 
initiators, originating from technical or human-induced failures or natural or man-made hazards. 
Initiators affecting any part or parts of the facility, particularly the reactors and spent fuel pools, 
must be considered for both operation and shutdown states. Accident management measures make 
use of available infrastructures, equipment, procedures and guidelines, and human and 
organizational resources. 
This regulatory document stipulates regulatory requirements and supporting guidance for 
licensees to develop, implement and evaluate integrated accident management for nuclear reactor 
facilities, excluding reactors with a thermal output capacity less than 10 MW thermal.  
The processes and activities for accident management shall be commensurate with the relative 
risk posed by the licensed activities of a reactor facility, which may be influenced by the reactor 
thermal power and available protective systems. It may be possible to show that certain accident 
management elements are unnecessary or do not apply. It is the responsibility of an applicant or a 
licensee to demonstrate that accident management provisions are adequate to limit the risk posed 
by accidents, including severe accidents. 
The document specifies requirements and guidance that are to be used to develop and validate 
necessary items such as emergency operating procedures (EOP), severe accident management 
guidelines (SAMG), and to demonstrate the licensees’ capabilities to manage the anticipated 
operational occurrences (AOO), design-basis accidents (DBA) and beyond-design-basis accidents 
(BDBA), including design extension conditions (DEC) and severe accidents. 
Accident management is an important component in licensees’ overall capabilities to ensure the 
risks associated with operating nuclear reactors remain low. Licensees need to be able to 
demonstrate they have appropriate provisions in place to manage deviations from normal 
operation, up to severe accidents. The definition of “accident management” given in this 
regulatory document is in line with international practice, and has evolved from the existing IAEA 
definition and adapted to cover both DBAs and BDBAs. 
This document focuses on the accident management aspects and thus does not include 
requirements and guidance for emergency preparedness and response, as those are given in 
REGDOC-2.10.1, Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and Response [5]. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
2 
 
1.3 
Relevant legislation 
Sections of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act (NSCA) and its regulations relevant to this 
document include: 
 
subsection 24(4) of the NSCA, which stipulates that “No licence shall be issued, renewed, 
amended or replaced — and no authorization to transfer one given — unless, in the opinion 
of the Commission, the applicant or, in the case of an application for an authorization to 
transfer the licence, the transferee 
(a) is qualified to carry on the activity that the licence will authorize the licensee to carry on; 
and  
(b) will, in carrying on that activity, make adequate provision for the protection of the 
environment, the health and safety of persons and the maintenance of national security and 
measures required to implement international obligations to which Canada has agreed.” 
 
paragraphs 12(1)(a) to 12(1)(f) of the General Nuclear Safety and Control Regulations, 
which stipulate that “every licensee shall: 
(a) ensure the presence of a sufficient number of qualified workers to carry on the licensed 
activity safely and in accordance with the NSCA, the regulations made under the NSCA and 
the licence;  
(b) train the workers to carry on the licensed activity in accordance with the NSCA, the 
regulations made under the NSCA and the licence;  
(c) take all reasonable precautions to protect the environment and the health and safety of 
persons and to maintain security of nuclear facilities and of nuclear substances;  
(d) provide the devices required by the NSCA, the regulations made under the NSCA and the 
licence and maintain them within the manufacturer’s specifications;  
(e) require that every person at the site of the licensed activity use equipment, devices, 
clothing and procedures in accordance with the NSCA, the regulations made under the NSCA 
and the licence; 
(f) take all reasonable precautions to control the release of radioactive nuclear substances or 
hazardous substances within the site of the licensed activity and into the environment as a 
result of the licensed activity.” 
 
section 5 of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations, which stipulates that “an application 
for a licence to construct a Class I nuclear facility shall contain the following information in 
addition to the information required by section 3: 
(d) a description of the structures proposed to be built as part of the nuclear facility, including 
their design and their design characteristics; 
(e) a description of the systems and equipment proposed to be installed at the nuclear facility, 
including their design and their design operating conditions; 
(i) the effects on the environment and the health and safety of persons that may result from 
the construction, operation and decommissioning of the nuclear facility, and the measures 
that will be taken to prevent or mitigate those effects.” 
 
section 6 of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations, which stipulates that “an application 
for a licence to operate a Class I nuclear facility shall contain the following information in 
addition to the information required by section 3: 
(d) the proposed measures, policies, methods and procedures for operating and maintaining 
the nuclear facility; 
(g) the proposed commissioning program for the systems and equipment that will be used at 
the nuclear facility; 
(h) the effects on the environment and the health and safety of persons that may result from 
the operation and decommissioning of the nuclear facility, and the measures that will be taken 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
3 
 
to prevent or mitigate those effects; 
(i) the proposed location of points of release, the proposed maximum quantities and 
concentrations, and the anticipated volume and flow rate of releases of nuclear substances 
and hazardous substances into the environment, including their physical, chemical and 
radiological characteristics; 
(j) the proposed measures to control releases of nuclear substances and hazardous substances 
into the environment; 
(k) the proposed measures to prevent or mitigate the effects of accidental releases of nuclear 
substances and hazardous substances on the environment, the health and safety of persons 
and the maintenance of national security, including measures to 
(i) assist off-site authorities in planning and preparing to limit the effects of an accidental 
release, 
(ii) notify off-site authorities of an accidental release or the imminence of an accidental 
release, 
(iii) report information to off-site authorities during and after an accidental release, 
(iv) assist off-site authorities in dealing with the effects of an accidental release, and 
(v) test the implementation of the measures to prevent or mitigate the effects of an 
accidental release.” 
 
section 7 of the Class I Nuclear Facilities Regulations, which stipulates that “an application 
for a licence to decommission a Class I nuclear facility shall contain the following 
information in addition to the information required by section 3: 
(i) the proposed measures to prevent or mitigate the effects of accidental releases of nuclear 
substances and hazardous substances on the environment, the health and safety of persons 
and the maintenance of national security, including an emergency response plan.” 
1.4 
National and international documents 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, represents the CNSC’s adaptation of the principles and 
guidelines set forth in national and international documents, including the following: 
 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safety Fundamentals No. SF-1, Fundamental 
Safety Principles [1] 
 
IAEA Specific Safety Requirements No. SSR-2/2, Safety of Nuclear Power Plants: 
Commissioning and Operation (Requirement 19: Accident management programme), [6] 
 
IAEA Safety Standards Series No. NS-G-2.15, STI/PUB/1376, Severe Accident Management 
Programmes for Nuclear Power Plants - Safety Guide [2] 
 
IAEA Safety Guide No. NS-G-2.15, Severe Accident Management Programmes for Nuclear 
Power Plants [2] 
 
IAEA Safety Reports Series No. 32, Implementation of Accident Management Programmes 
in Nuclear Power Plants [3]  
 
IAEA INSAG-10, Defence in Depth in Nuclear Safety [7] 
 
IAEA INSAG-12, 75-INSAG-3 Rev. 1, Basic Safety Principles for Nuclear Power Plants [8] 
 
IAEA TECDOC-1440, Overview of Training Methodology for Accident Management at 
Nuclear Power Plants [9] 
 
IAEA Safety Services Series No. 9, IAEA-SVS-09, Guidelines for the Review of Accident 
Management Programmes in Nuclear Power Plants [4] 
 
CSA Group N286, Management System Requirements for Nuclear Facilities [10] 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
4 
 
2. 
Accident Management and Its Links with Emergency Preparedness and the 
Principle of Defence in Depth 
Emergency management includes the prevention and mitigation, preparedness, response and 
recovery of nuclear emergencies.  
Prevention of nuclear emergencies at Canadian nuclear facilities is the responsibility of the 
licensees. Through the authority of the Nuclear Safety and Control Act, the CNSC regulates the 
Canadian nuclear industry in order to prevent unreasonable risk to the environment, the health 
and safety of persons, and national security. Mitigation of nuclear emergencies aims at ensuring 
that equipment, such as hydrogen recombiners, or procedures, such as emergency operating 
procedures, are put in place before a nuclear emergency to reduce the potential magnitude or 
impact of the hazard. REGDOC 2.3.2 addresses this component of emergency management. 
Preparedness relates to actions taken before a nuclear emergency in order to be ready to respond 
and manage its consequences, and includes the development of response procedures and plans, 
training workers, maintaining emergency facilities, exercises and fostering public awareness.  
Response refers to those actions taken during a nuclear emergency, both onsite and offsite, to 
reduce the magnitude of the hazard and manage its consequences on health, safety and the 
environment. Response actions include protecting workers, supporting accident management 
activities, emergency public communication, emergency medical assistance, and shelter-in-place 
or evacuation. 
Recovery includes the short-term and long-term actions taken both onsite and offsite in order to 
restore to an acceptable level both the organizations involved in and the communities affected by 
the nuclear emergency. The level of restoration would typically be determined by the responsible 
authorities, in consultation with the stakeholders affected by the nuclear emergency. 
Further information on nuclear emergency preparedness, response and recovery can be found in 
REGDOC-2.10.1, Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and Response. 
The fundamental premise underlying accident management is that the organization operating a 
nuclear reactor must be able to respond to any credible accident in order to: 
 
prevent the escalation of the accident  
 
mitigate the consequences of the accident 
 
achieve a long-term safe stable state after the accident 
To achieve the above goals, integrated accident management must form a cohesive set of plans 
and arrangements undertaken to ensure that, if an accident occurs: 
 
the safety systems and the available structures, systems and components (SSCs) can be used 
to control the reactivity, cool the fuel and contain the radioactive materials such that damage 
to the reactor and harm to workers, public, and environment is prevented or mitigated 
 
the personnel with responsibilities for accident management are adequately prepared to utilize 
the available resources, procedures, and guidelines to perform effective accident management 
actions and, when deemed necessary, to call for and interact with the emergency response 
teams 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
5 
 
AOOs and DBAs are included in accident management considerations, to ensure that they do not 
progress to more challenging accidents and that their consequences are mitigated to remain within 
established limits. Essential features for mitigating AOOs and DBAs already exist in operating 
reactors; they include: 
 
design provisions allowing automatic actuation of controls and/or safety systems which 
terminate the vast majority of events  
 
EOPs to respond to events within the design basis 
 
the associated programs for equipment maintenance, human performance, training, and shift 
complement  
Plant-specific accident management measures build on the existing components/documents, and 
integrates all available provisions for accident management. 
Thus, accident management provides capability to respond to an accident within the reactor 
facility. It is important to recognize that accident management interfaces closely but is distinct 
from emergency preparedness, which provides emergency responses to mitigate the onsite and 
offsite impacts of an accident to workers and the public. 
Both accident management and emergency preparedness form part of the defence-in-depth 
provisions. In particular, accident management contributes to the levels 3 and 4 of defence-in-
depth, while emergency preparedness corresponds to level 5 of defence-in-depth. Defense-in-
depth level 3 is associated with the control of an accident and rule based procedures are, in 
general, used. Level 4 of defense-in-depth refers to BDBAs including severe accidents where 
efforts are focused on managing the accident and operators may need to move beyond the use of 
EOPs to guidelines/procedures with considerable judgment required. 
Figure 1 illustrates links between the accident management, emergency preparedness and defence 
in depth. Accident management focuses on preventing an event that has already occurred from 
escalating and minimizing its radiological releases through use of various physical and procedural 
provisions. The specific provisions may vary depending on the accident (which may be a design-
basis accident or beyond-design-basis accident, including a severe accident). The emergency 
preparedness program (which is described in REGDOC-2.10.1 [5]) specifies how the nuclear 
facilities and organizations concerned are prepared for and plan to respond to an emergency 
including a nuclear or radiological emergency, both onsite and offsite, in order to protect workers 
and the public. 
It is recognized that response to accidents of different severity would require different actions. 
Careful consideration of transition criteria is essential in ensuring a seamless activation of 
appropriate response. 
Appendix A further illustrates various essential accident management elements used to respond to 
AOOs, DBAs and BDBAs. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
6 
 
Figure 1: Accident management (REGDOC-2.3.2) and nuclear emergency preparedness  
(REGDOC-2.10.1) and how they relate to one another 
 
3. 
Requirements for Integrated Accident Management  
This section specifies accident management requirements. The first subsection sets the goals of 
accident management. The second subsection gives the general or high-level requirements. Then, 
specific requirements covering accident management response elements are grouped under the 
requirements for equipment, procedures, and organizational and human aspects. 
3.1 
Goals of accident management 
In accordance with the NSCA and associated regulations, the overarching nuclear safety objective 
is to protect individuals, society, and the environment from harm by establishing and maintaining 
effective defences against radiological hazards and hazardous substances. When an accident 
occurs in a nuclear reactor facility, the above objective is achieved by fulfilling the following 
fundamental safety functions: 
 
control of reactivity 
 
removal of heat from the fuel 
 
confinement of radioactive material 
 
shielding against radiation 
 
control of operational discharges and hazards substances, as well as limitation of accidental 
releases 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
7 
 
 
monitoring of safety-critical parameters to guide operator actions  
The specific goals of accident management are to: 
 
terminate the progression of the accident as early as possible 
 
prevent an accident from leading to severe consequences  
 
maintain the integrity of fission product barriers including containment and spent fuel storage  
 
minimize the release of radioactive materials into the environment 
 
achieve a long-term safe stable state of the reactor core or spent fuel storage 
To fulfill these high-level requirements, the licensee shall meet all the requirements specified in 
this section and consider the guidance given in sections 4, 5, 6 and 7. 
3.2 
General requirements 
Licensees shall: 
1. identify and implement reactor-specific accident management measures to ensure that 
adequate capabilities are maintained to cope with scenarios ranging from AOOs to severe 
accidents 
2. address, to the extent practicable, the initiating events that have the potential to cause 
extensive infrastructure damage such that offsite resources are not readily available 
3. ensure that accident management measures cover all modes of reactor operation including the 
shutdown state; events that could cause damage to the fuel in a reactor core, in transport to 
storage, or stored in a spent fuel pool shall be considered 
4. identify and document challenges to safety functions and physical barriers and perform safety 
analysis 
5. identify and confirm reactor site capabilities to cope with the challenges to safety functions in 
performing accident management actions 
6. conduct periodic reviews, drills and integrated exercises to confirm or improve the 
effectiveness of the established accident management measures  
7. ensure that the accident management processes and activities interface with the emergency 
preparedness  
8. make accident management provisions, including: 
a. developing criteria for determining what procedures to use 
b. demonstrating the capability to take actions to protect and inform personnel at the scene 
c. identifying the roles and responsibilities of the personnel responsible for accident 
management 
d. identifying and evaluating reactor systems and features suitable for use during accident 
management 
3.3 
Equipment and instrumentation requirements 
Licensees shall: 
1. provide capabilities to preserve the physical barriers for release of radioactivity and to ensure 
that means are available to: 
a. control challenges posed by DBAs within appropriate limits 
b. mitigate consequences of BDBAs 
c. reduce radiation risks from releases of radioactive materials by carrying out accident 
management actions 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
8 
 
2. address the information needs for accident management, by providing instrumentation that is 
capable of: 
a. diagnosing that an accident, including a severe accident, is occurring or has occurred 
b. obtaining information, as necessary, on key parameters (which may include neutron flux, 
temperatures, pressures, flows, combustible gas concentrations, and radiation levels) to 
assess accident conditions and progression  
c. addressing continuously the state of essential safety functions, including reactor core 
monitoring, reactivity control, fuel cooling, hydrogen control, and containment 
d. confirming the effectiveness of the accident management actions 
3. demonstrate with reasonable assurance that the equipment and instruments used in severe 
accident management will survive and perform their intended functions in the ensuing harsh 
conditions 
3.4 
Requirements for procedures and guidelines 
Licensees shall: 
1. develop, verify and validate accident management procedures and guidelines, including EOPs, 
emergency mitigating equipment guidelines (EMEGs) and SAMGs as applicable  
2. account for factors specific to the reactor design in the development of SAMGs for severe 
accidents 
3. consider that information available to the operating staff or emergency groups may be 
incomplete and characterized by significant uncertainties 
4. include the following in SAMGs: 
a. the parameters and their thresholds that define the transition from EOPs to SAMGs 
b. key parameters to diagnose the state of various reactor and reactor systems throughout the 
progression of the accident 
c. actions to be taken to counter the damage mechanisms that would challenge the integrity 
of the containment, irrespective of predicted frequencies of occurrence for those damage 
mechanisms 
d. indicators that can be used to judge the success of the implemented actions 
e. the communication protocol to be followed during implementation of accident 
management 
f. guidance on dealing with multi-unit damage, uncovered fuel in spent fuel pools, releases 
of radioactive materials and hydrogen into buildings adjacent to the containment 
5. ensure the EOPs and SAMGs consider long time periods to initiate and complete required 
actions, taking into account the human and organizational performance and the possibility of 
prolonged time required to restore power due to multi-unit damage or large-scale external 
disturbances 
6. include steps into guidelines for events where supplementary equipment (also called 
emergency mitigating equipment (EME)) and where external supports are required to mitigate 
the accident consequences 
7. provide for transition from the accident management activities to accident recovery1 
                                                            
1  
Accident management (e.g., post-accident monitoring of fuel and containment) plays an important role in transition to 
recovery. REGDOC-2.10.1, Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and Response, provides information concerning recovery 
actions taken to restore the organizations involved in and the communities affected by the nuclear emergency. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
9 
 
3.5 
Requirements for human and organizational performance 
Licensees shall:  
1. ensure that personnel involved in managing an accident have the information, procedures, and 
human and materiel resources to carry out accident management actions 
2. provide training to the personnel who are required to respond to accidents to a level 
commensurate with their respective roles in accident management 
3. ensure habitability of facilities required to support human performance during the 
implementation of accident management measures or provide alternate habitable facilities 
4. 
Guidance for Developing Integrated Accident Management  
To satisfy the requirements specified in section 3 pertinent to the development of integrated 
accident management, the licensee or applicant should consider the guidance below. Facilities 
may establish accident management in a manner different from that outlined in this guidance. 
4.1 
General considerations 
A structured top-down approach (as illustrated in appendix A) should be considered. At the top 
level, the objectives of accident management should be defined according to the level of defence 
and associated goals that are given in section 3. Challenges to safety functions and physical 
barriers, together with the associated damage mechanisms and conditions, should be identified. 
This is referred to as identification of challenges. For each of the identified challenges, suitable 
measures or provisions should be derived, described, and referenced or documented in procedures 
or guidelines, and used for training the personnel responsible for executing the measures for 
managing such an accident, should it occur. 
The staff responsible for developing accident management strategies should have training and 
experience regarding accident management in a nuclear facility. 
4.2 
Establishment of integrated accident management  
For setting out integrated accident management, the following steps should be taken: 
 
identification of challenges to the reactor safety functions 
 
identification of reactor capabilities 
 
development of strategies and measures to cope with the identified challenges 
 
performance of supporting analyses to evaluate and confirm the adequacy of the strategies 
and measures developed 
 
development of procedures and guidelines 
 
consideration of other elements such as equipment and instrumentation provisions, 
organizational responsibilities, and communication interfaces 
While following the above major steps for establishing integrated accident management, the 
licensee should also consider the following important elements as described in section 4.3: 
 
equipment provisions 
 
role of instrumentation 
 
organizational responsibilities 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
10 
 
 
on-site communication interfaces and external interfaces, if necessary  
Licensees should also consult REGDOC-2.12.1, High-Security Sites: Nuclear Response Force, 
and G-274, Security Programs for Category I or II Nuclear Material or Certain Nuclear 
Facilities for further information regarding security aspects of accident management.  
4.2.1 
Identification of challenges to reactor safety functions 
Postulated initiating events and accident sequences that could be caused by failures or 
malfunctions of SSCs, human errors, common-cause internal and external hazards, and 
combinations thereof should be considered. 
Challenges that are not considered in the reactor design envelope, but could threaten the integrity 
of the containment should be practically eliminated; that is, the existing process systems, safety 
and control systems, complementary design features, available SSCs, and procedural provisions 
should make the occurrence of these challenges practically impossible. For example, the installed 
rupture disks or relief valves that provide reliable and sufficient depressurization capability for a 
reactor core or vessel can eliminate the high-pressure corium ejection phenomenon and thus the 
possibility of direct containment heating by corium. 
Among events, a selected set of accident sequences that can be used to represent the consequences 
of each group of accident sequences should be used to obtain insights into the behaviour of the 
accident and to identify challenges to reactor safety functions. This requires investigating how 
specific accidents will challenge safety functions and – if safety functions are lost and not 
restored in due time – how the accident progresses, how the fission product barriers are breached, 
how long it will take to reach each stage of the accident, and how severe each accident stage will 
be. 
In the domain of BDBAs, insights into the response of the reactor to BDBAs, including severe 
accidents, should be obtained. A technical basis for SAM should document the understanding of 
severe accident phenomena and reactor-specific physical processes, such as core degradation, in-
vessel core debris retention, ex-vessel corium spreading and coolability, molten fuel coolant 
interaction, molten core concrete interaction, and all known containment challenge mechanisms. 
The technical basis should also include severe accident phenomena in spent fuel bays and multi-
unit distress. The technical basis should be updated as necessary to reflect the state-of-the-art 
knowledge and experimental data obtained from severe accident research programs and lessons 
learned from the reactors that have experienced severe core damage. The updated knowledge and 
data should be used to evaluate the reactor ability to cope with accidents and to deduce suitable 
accident management strategies, provisions, procedures, and guidelines. 
Reactor-specific beyond-design-basis initiating events, such as events triggered by extreme 
external hazards (e.g., earthquakes, flooding, and extreme weather conditions), should also be 
considered to increase the reactor coping capability. The aim is to ensure that a set of sufficient, 
supplementary onsite equipment and consumables (e.g., fuel and water inventories) are identified, 
obtained, protected and stored onsite or offsite. These can be used to maintain or restore the 
cooling of the core, the containment, and the spent fuel pool following a beyond-design-basis 
initiating event. After the consumables are used up, offsite resources should be obtained to sustain 
those cooling functions indefinitely. 
Accident management should consider that some beyond-design-basis initiating events may result 
in similar challenges to all units on the site. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
11 
 
Challenges for severe accidents and beyond-design-basis initiating events may be identified using 
a targeted assessment of safety margins against a set of postulated extreme conditions that cause a 
consequential loss of safety functions leading to severe core damage. Such a reactor-specific 
“stress test” can be used to determine the time of autonomy of reactor-critical safety functions, any 
weak points, and any cliff-edge effects for a given set of the considered extreme situations. This 
type of exercise may be used to identify the potential for safety improvements and to provide 
input to the development of integrated accident management.  
4.2.2 
Identification of reactor capabilities 
Similar to identification of challenges, all reactor capabilities to fulfill the safety functions and to 
preserve fission product barriers during DBAs or BDBAs should be investigated in terms of 
capabilities of both SSCs and personnel. Reactor capabilities to cope with BDBAs by the 
available SSCs including the complementary design features should be identified, including the 
use of non-dedicated systems, external water sources, temporary connections (hoses, mobile or 
portable equipment), and offsite hardware and personnel resources. Considerations should also be 
given to whether failed systems can be restored to service. In addition, an assessment should be 
made of how operator actions are carried out to mitigate accident consequences. 
Multiple diverse SAM measures should be provided for significant challenges to containment 
integrity. Consideration should be given to both the benefit and potential negative impact of using 
portable or supplementary equipment to cope with beyond–design-basis initiating events. 
Relevant information including lessons learned from past nuclear accidents as well as data from 
experimental activities should be considered during the identification of reactor capabilities. 
4.2.3 
Development of strategies and measures 
To ensure that the accident management objectives are achieved, a set of strategies for severe 
accident prevention and accident mitigation should be developed on the basis of the understanding 
of accident phenomena and reactor-specific accidents, as well as the considerations of the 
identified reactor challenges and capabilities. 
Preventive strategies are needed to preserve safety functions that are important to prevent core 
damage such as maintaining core cooling and containment integrity. Mitigative strategies are 
needed to terminate the progression of core damage once it has started, minimize the radiological 
consequences, and achieve a long-term safe stable state. 
Reactor damage states, such as damaged fuel, core uncovered and damaged, core debris 
uncovered leading to failure of the reactor vessel, and movement of the core debris outside the 
reactor vessel, should be identified based on the reactor parameters monitored and considered in 
the development of accident management strategies. 
Suitable strategies that cover each reactor damage state should be developed and prioritized, 
taking into consideration the evolution of the accident (i.e., the time window for each reactor-
specific damage state) and both positive and negative effects. The possibly large uncertainties in 
identifying such a time window should be taken into account. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
12 
 
For each of the strategies developed, suitable measures or actions should be identified and 
evaluated, taking into account the effects of accident conditions on equipment, instrumentation, 
and the personnel who perform the actions. Effectiveness of the most suitable or preferable 
measures for each reactor damage state should be assessed and documented in detail. 
The licensee should identify preventive and mitigation actions to achieve the accident 
management objectives. Generally, accident management actions should include: 
 
establishment and maintenance of reactivity control 
 
assurance of availability of heat sink for heat generated in the reactor core 
 
depressurization of the reactor coolant system and steam generators 
 
maintenance of coolant inventory in the primary heat transport system 
 
control of pressure and water inventory in steam generators 
 
control of pressure and water inventory inside the calandria or reactor vessel 
 
control of pressure and water inventory outside the calandria or reactor vessel 
 
assurance of containment isolation 
 
control of the containment pressure and temperature 
 
control of the concentration of hydrogen and other flammable gases 
 
prevention of unfiltered releases of radioactive products 
To increase the reactor coping capability against beyond-design-basis initiating events, suitable 
strategies should be established; for example, use of the installed SSCs for the initial accident 
management phase, dedicated systems or emergency mitigating equipment (EME) stored onsite or 
offsite for the transition phase during which the installed SSCs are incapacitated, and offsite 
equipment and resources to maintain or restore fuel and containment cooling functions 
indefinitely. 
4.2.4 
Supporting analyses 
Safety analysis to support accident management can be based on the existing analysis (e.g., 
documented in safety reports or probabilistic safety assessment (PSA) documents). Additional 
analysis, if required, should be performed specifically to address accident management issues. 
Safety analysis should be used to assist in developing accident management measures by: 
 
formulating the technical basis for identification of reactor challenges and capabilities and 
development of strategies, measures, procedures and guidelines 
 
demonstrating the acceptability of the identified solutions to support the selected strategies, 
measures, procedures and guidelines against the established criteria 
 
determining the reference source terms and accident conditions for environmental 
qualification of equipment for DBAs and survivability/operability assessments of equipment 
for BDBAs, including severe accidents 
Safety analysis performed to support SAM should use the best-estimate approach. Uncertainties 
in the analytical prediction of challenges to fission product barriers should be taken into account if 
the level of knowledge of important severe accident phenomena and physical processes is low and 
if the associated supporting experimental data are insufficient. 
Necessary computational aids should be identified and developed to assist in the overall success 
of accident management activities performed by the response organization prior to an actual 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
13 
 
event. These computational aids are typically obtained using simplified assumptions and are often 
presented graphically. 
The results of deterministic severe accident analysis should assist the licensee to: 
 
specify the criteria that would indicate the onset of severe core damage 
 
identify the symptoms (i.e., parameters and their values) by which reactor personnel may 
determine the reactor core condition and state of protective barriers 
 
identify the challenges to fission product boundaries in different reactor states, including 
shutdown states 
 
evaluate the timing of such challenges to improve the potential for successful human 
intervention 
 
identify the reactor systems and materiel resources that may be used for SAM purposes 
 
assess that SAM actions would be effective to counter challenges to protective barriers 
 
evaluate performance of equipment and instrumentation under accident conditions 
 
develop and validate computational aids for SAM 
For severe accidents, the results of PSA should assist the licensee to: 
 
assess that SAM would be effective for representative severe accident sequences, including 
multi-unit events, events triggered by natural and human-induced external hazards, and 
events involving an extended loss of all AC power 
 
provide a basis for assessing safety benefits of potential design enhancement options 
 
identify accident scenarios for personnel training and drill purposes 
Human actions in preparation of the accident management measures should be supported with 
analyses. Considerations should be given to: 
 
the instrumentation to provide indication of the need to take action 
 
allowing time for the operator to detect and diagnose the event, and carry out the required 
actions 
 
environmental conditions that do not prevent safe completion of the operator action 
 
the required training 
4.2.5 
Development of procedures and guidelines 
Procedures and guidelines to implement the strategies and measures for accident management 
should be developed and described in documents such as EOPs and SAMGs, or equivalent 
documents (see the requirements specified in section 3.4) and, if applicable, guidelines for EME. If 
EOPs and SAMGs already exist, integrated accident management can be built using these existing 
elements. Any new information on reactor site configuration, changes in hazards, and knowledge 
gained should be considered, and if appropriate procedures and guidelines should be updated 
accordingly. 
The EOPs should contain a set of information, instructions and actions designed to prevent the 
escalation of an accident, mitigate its consequences and bring the reactor to a safe and stable state. 
The SAMGs should contain a set of information, instructions and actions designed to mitigate the 
consequences of a severe accident according to the chosen strategies. Uncertainties may exist both 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
14 
 
in the reactor status and in the outcome of a selected action. Therefore, SAMGs should propose a 
range of possible actions and allow for additional evaluation and alternative actions. 
SAMGs should also address various positive and negative consequences of proposed actions, 
including the use of equipment, limitations of the equipment, cautions and benefits.  
The procedures and guidelines should be verified and validated to ensure that they are integrated in 
a cohesive, effective and usable manner. Clear criteria for EOP to SAMG transition should be 
defined. 
Guidance should be provided to ensure that events and symptom-based EOP components, or 
equivalent, are coordinated among the responsible personnel and that the symptom-based 
approach is invoked when it is required. 
Measures, including providing guidelines and training, should be defined to support staff 
decision-making for situations where an event has progressed to a stage for which procedures 
have not been defined. 
EOPs and SAMGs should cover events with multi-unit damage, potential damage to the fuel in 
spent fuel pools, releases of radioactive materials and hydrogen into buildings adjacent to the 
containment, and run-off of contaminated water to the environment. 
The time period that EOPs or SAMGs assume to initiate and complete required actions should 
reflect potential damage to the reactor. For example, a SAMG may specify a time period required 
to hook up alternative power and water sources. For external events, the extent of reactor damage 
and disturbances from outside or at the grid should be taken into account to prolong this time 
period. Having a diesel back on line may take a whole day or even longer, much more than the 
time that is assumed sufficient for an intact site area without large disturbances from outside. 
For beyond-design-basis initiating events, the reactor may require supplementary equipment or 
EME stored onsite or offsite and external support to mitigate the accident consequences. These 
necessary measures should be specified in guidelines for coping with these events. 
4.3 
Other considerations 
Additional important elements that should be considered in the development of integrated accident 
management include equipment and instrumentation, organizational responsibilities, and 
communication interfaces. 
4.3.1 
Equipment provisions 
Reactors should be equipped with hardware provisions (which may include supplementary onsite 
and offsite equipment) to fulfill safety functions (i.e., control of reactivity, removal of heat from 
the fuel, confinement of radioactive material) for accidents, including severe accidents. Dedicated 
systems and complementary design features should be provided to practically eliminate some 
severe accident phenomena such as core melt at high pressures and hydrogen detonation. 
Complementary design features and available water sources for removal of decay heat from 
damaged reactor fuel should be identified in advance and put in place for managing severe 
accidents, particularly for maintaining the cooling of the core debris and the integrity of the 
containment. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
15 
 
Suitable analysis tools and methods should be used, in conjunction with the existing risk (e.g., 
based on the identified reactor challenges and capabilities), to aid in decision-making regarding 
equipment and instrumentation provisions or upgrades for accident management. 
For the most serious BDBA challenges, such as an extended loss of heat sinks, buildup of a 
diverse and flexible mitigation capability (e.g., using EME) should be considered. For example, 
portable or supplementary equipment can provide multiple means of obtaining power and water 
to support key safety functions for all reactors at a site. 
BDBAs and severe accidents potentially create harsh environments with high temperature, high 
pressure, high radiation level, and high concentration of combustible gases. These environmental 
conditions, which could well exceed those of DBAs used for equipment qualification, present 
additional challenges to the equipment. The licensee should perform equipment survivability 
assessments to provide reasonable assurance that equipment used in SAM is available at the time 
it is called upon to perform. 
Survivability of the equipment that could be used in SAM should be evaluated through a 
systematic review and assessment of equipment functions and conditions based on the available 
knowledge and data, such as from equipment environmental qualification for DBA, severe 
accident testing and analysis, and engineering judgment. The following steps should be taken: 
 
identification of accident management actions used to mitigate severe accidents 
 
definition of fuel and core damage stage and time period for each accident management 
action 
 
identification of equipment used to perform each of the actions 
 
determination of the bounding environmental conditions to the equipment within each time 
period 
 
demonstration that the equipment will survive to perform its function 
The habitability of the facilities used in accident management (such as the main control room, the 
secondary control room, and the emergency response facilities, including a technical support 
centre) should be assessed and assured, taking into account the environmental conditions (e.g., 
radiological conditions and other conditions related to lighting, ventilation, temperature and 
communication) within and surrounding the facilities during an accident. Where necessary, 
alternate habitable facilities should be provided. 
4.3.2 
Role of instrumentation 
Adequate instrumentation should be available at each stage of an accident for the monitoring and 
diagnosis of reactor conditions and for assisting in accident evaluation, accident management 
decision-making, and action execution. 
The reactor parameters used in each stage of accident management should be checked and 
evaluated for their reliability. The preferred method to obtain the necessary information is to use 
the instrumentation that is qualified for the expected environmental conditions. The effect of 
environmental conditions on the instrument reading should be estimated and taken into account to 
produce the procedures and guidelines. Any key instrumentation reading from a non-qualified 
instrument that is used to diagnose reactor conditions for SAM should have an alternate method, 
(possibly including computational aids) to compare the reading. Where the risks associated with 
faulty readings are high under local environmental conditions, consideration should be given to 
upgrading or replacing the instruments. For scenarios where the required parameters are missing 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
16 
 
or their measurements are unreliable, the need for development of computational aids to obtain 
information should be identified, and appropriate computational aids developed in advance. 
The guidelines for equipment survivability specified in section 4.3.1 for severe accident 
conditions also apply to reactor instrumentation. A list of instrumentation for each stage of the 
severe accident should be established. Reasonable assurance should be provided that the 
instrumentation used to monitor severe accident progression and facilitate accident management 
actions is available. Harsh environmental conditions, including the effects of hydrogen burn 
within the containment on cables and electrical containment penetrations, should be also taken 
into account. 
Given that during a severe accident the total information flow may be overwhelming and that 
some of the indications may be contradictory due to failed equipment and instrumentation, the 
licensee should consider using diagnostic and support tools to help with decision-making for 
accident management (e.g., computational aids as discussed in section 4.2.4). 
4.3.3 
Organizational responsibilities 
The roles and responsibilities of the personnel involved in accident management should be clearly 
defined and documented, including: 
 
evaluation and recommendation  
 
lines of authority  
 
implementation of the actions  
 
transfer of responsibilities and decision-making authority 
 
interfaces with other organizations and authorities 
The duties of the “evaluators” are to assess the reactor conditions, identify potential actions, 
evaluate the impacts of these actions, and recommend actions to be taken. During the execution of 
EOPs, both the evaluators and implementers who carry out the approved actions may come from 
the main control room and field personnel. 
For SAM, the technical advisory team at the technical support centre should perform evaluations 
and recommend recovery actions to the decision-making authority. The control room staff should 
provide input to the evaluations of the technical support centre on the basis of their knowledge of 
reactor equipment and instrumentation, and their other special skills from their training. 
The technical support centre personnel should have a good understanding of the underlying severe 
accident phenomena and reactor-specific accident progression stages. They should have a detailed 
knowledge of the EOPs and the SAMGs. The team of the technical support centre should 
communicate extensively with the control room staff. 
Lines of authority should be clearly defined at each stage of the accident. Where evaluation 
responsibilities and decision-making authority are transferred from the control room staff to the 
technical support centre and a higher level of authority, the transition should be made at some 
specific point in time that poses no additional risk to accident management. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
17 
 
Specifically, the licensee should establish clear roles and responsibilities of the following 
participants for each stage of an accident. The list includes, but is not limited to: 
 
plant shift supervisors 
 
control room shift supervisors 
 
reactor unit operators 
 
common service operators 
 
field personnel 
 
senior health physicist 
 
emergency response manager 
 
nuclear safety manager 
 
plant manager 
 
technical advisory team 
The above-listed roles and positions may vary by station; however, if titles vary, the functions 
should be equivalent. 
In consideration of beyond-design-basis initiating events, the minimum number of qualified 
personnel needed for managing the situation should be identified. The effects of extreme weather 
conditions, seismic events or events that are disruptive to society on the availability of skilled 
personnel should be considered. Contingency plans should be developed to identify substitutes 
that could perform the same tasks in case these skilled workers are unavailable. Suitable backups 
should be pre-defined for key roles in the accident management organization, including the 
possibility to transfer authority in whole or in part. 
4.3.4 
Communication interfaces 
During a severe accident, no single group is likely to have the complete information, knowledge, 
and skills required to manage the accident. It is therefore important to establish effective onsite 
communication interfaces among groups including the emergency response teams as specified in 
REGDOC-2.10.1, Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and Response. These interfaces will enable 
efficient integration of the information and expertise available within the operating and supporting 
organizations or from other involved authorities. 
The impact of beyond-design-basis initiating events on communication should be considered. 
Provisions should be made for communication among different accident management and 
emergency response organizations under extreme situations such as widespread onsite and offsite 
damage caused by severe weather conditions, flooding or earthquake. Measures should be taken 
to ensure the effectiveness of the emergency communication systems, including regular practice 
in their use. 
Licensees should also consult RD/GD-99.3, Public Information and Disclosure concerning public 
disclosure protocols regarding events and developments at their facilities. 
5. 
Guidance for Implementing Integrated Accident Management  
To satisfy the requirements specified in section 3 pertinent to the implementation of integrated 
accident management, the licensee should consider the guidance given in this section. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
18 
 
Implementation of accident management measures should consider, but not be limited to: 
 
integration of procedures, guidelines, and arrangements to ensure that interfacing issues are 
addressed and that accident management components are put in place to meet the goals of 
accident management 
 
verification of the procedures and guidelines to ensure that they work as intended 
 
consideration of human factors and human-machine interface issues to ensure that the 
required accident management actions can be implemented as intended  
 
organizational aspects to ensure that the defined responsibility matrix is consistent with the 
qualifications and expertise of the staff and with other authorities and supporting 
organizations 
 
personnel training to ensure that a training plan is executed 
5.1 
Integration of procedures, guidelines and arrangements 
Licensees should integrate the established procedures, guidelines, and arrangements including 
equipment and personnel resources to implement the identified accident management measures. 
EOP to SAMG transition and the associated issues including roles and responsibilities, equipment 
performance, and potential instrument errors under accident conditions should be identified and 
addressed. The implementation stage may identify necessary changes in certain aspects of accident 
management. 
The onsite and offsite emergency response plans and procedures should be reviewed with respect 
to the accident management actions, to ensure that conflicts do not exist. Hardware arrangements, 
including temporary and supplementary equipment (e.g., EME), should be checked for their 
operability and usability under accident conditions. 
5.2 
Verification and validation of procedures and guidelines 
The overall process of verification and validation should be formally documented. The level of 
documentation required will depend upon the complexity of issues addressed and the impact on 
safety. 
The objectives of the verification and validation of accident management procedures and 
guidelines are to: 
 
demonstrate that procedures and guidelines achieve the goals for which they were developed 
 
confirm their usability (in terms of being easily understood and followed by their users) 
 
verify technical accuracy (meaning identification of the correct equipment and line-ups) 
 
assure completeness of scope (that is, to provide adequate guidance for expected activities) 
 
confirm that specified actions consider possible challenges and threats to the personnel and 
identify alternatives, where appropriate 
5.3 
Human and organizational performance 
Safe and reliable human and organizational performance is an essential part of accident 
management. Such performance under emergency situations should be taken into account during 
the implementation of the accident management measures to meet the expectations specified in 
regulatory guides G-276, Human Factors Engineering Program Plans [11], and G-323, Ensuring 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
19 
 
the Presence of Sufficient Qualified Staff at Class I Nuclear Facilities – Minimum Staff 
Complement [12]. Field operator performance and human-machine interface issues under 
hazardous environments and conditions should be identified and considered during the execution 
of SAMG actions. SAM may require qualified personnel that are not part of the normal minimum 
staff complement. 
Verification and validation of human and organizational performance aspects, including EOPs 
and SAMGs, and, if applicable, EMEGs, to execute the identified accident management actions 
should be conducted to demonstrate that they can be carried out by reactor personnel under 
accident conditions. 
Accident management should incorporate measures to ensure that the personnel are ready to carry 
out roles and responsibilities. For example, certain accident events may cause damage to the 
facilities (e.g., the technical support centre) and provisions should be made to ensure the 
habitability of the facilities or an alternative is available. 
Improvement of accident management should be achieved through the consideration and 
incorporation of results from research in human performance, including decision-making. 
EOP implementation involves operational personnel with support from others as needed. SAMG 
implementation has wider organizational implications, which require careful considerations in 
terms of roles and responsibilities, personnel qualification, and interfaces with the technical 
support centre and the emergency response centre (see section 4.3.3). 
Shift turnover, availability of replacement staff, provision of food and other amenities necessary 
for prolonged duty during events should be considered, as well as the human impacts of having to 
execute accident management actions under extremely high stress. 
5.4 
Training 
Licensees should consult REGDOC-2.2.2, Personnel Training, for information on requirements 
and guidance for training systems.  
Training should be provided to the operating personnel and responsible organizations to ensure 
their competency in using the instructions and actions specified in EOPs and EMEGs, and their 
knowledge of the information required to identify events and accidents that are beyond the design 
basis and of the guidelines specified in SAMGs. 
Training should be commensurate with each person’s role in the case of an accident, enabling 
them to: 
 
understand their roles and responsibilities in accident management 
 
learn about accident phenomena and processes 
 
become familiar with the activities to be carried out 
 
enhance their ability to perform in stressful conditions 
 
verify the effectiveness and improve the clarity of procedures and guidelines 
The licensee should establish qualification, training, deployment, and staffing numbers for the 
various organizational groups involved in accident management. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
20 
 
Training programs should address the roles to be performed by the different groups, and include 
drills and exercises to enable assessment of the interactions between the various groups involved 
in accident management. A set of drills should be developed to cover multi-unit events and 
external events. 
The purpose of conducting regular drills and integrated exercises is to confirm and maintain the 
essential elements related to procedures, equipment and personnel used, should an accident occur. 
Licensees should consider available tools to assess human response and other human and 
organizational performance aspects. For example, simulator training provides a realistic and 
interactive environment that may facilitate personnel training. 
6. 
Guidance for Validating Integrated Accident Management  
To satisfy the requirements specified in section 3 pertinent to the validation of integrated accident 
management, the licensee should consider the guidance given in this section. 
The first step of the validation is to review the integrated accident management approach to assess 
its completeness and adequacy. The review also gives an opportunity to identify specific areas in 
accident management that need improvement to enhance reactor capabilities to cope with an 
accident. The adequacy of the SSCs and human/materiel resources that are required to complete 
accident management actions should be assessed. 
To ensure the continued effectiveness of accident management, the licensee should have a 
procedural mechanism (see requirement 6 in section 3.2) by which its components are 
continuously reviewed to ensure that the technical basis remains sound and current, and that 
station staff can carry them out effectively. Where the review indicates that improvements are 
required, those improvements should be incorporated promptly. 
6.1 
Review of integrated accident management  
Review of the integrated accident management approach before its implementation is intended to 
check its quality, consistency and completeness. Review after its implementation is to evaluate its 
adequacy, effectiveness, and any needs for updating and strengthening. The review includes self-
assessments and independent reviews. 
It is necessary to review and evaluate the effectiveness of accident management periodically to 
ensure it reflects modern requirements, reflects lessons from drills and exercises, incorporates 
knowledge gained from any new information and experimental data, and includes any changes in 
personnel, reactor equipment and instrumentation conditions, and training needs. The review 
should cover all the aspects of the preparation, development, implementation, and documentation 
of the integrated accident management, including: 
 
review that the selection and scope of the accident management meet requirements 
 
review of the technical basis on the understanding of reactor-specific accident progression 
(reactor damage states), phenomena, and challenges, and on the state-of-the-art knowledge 
and data to tackle those challenges 
 
assessment of whether the identified reactor challenges and capabilities address reactor 
design and conditions 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
21 
 
 
assessment of whether the identified supplementary equipment (e.g., EME) for coping with 
beyond-design-basis initiating events is protected, proceduralized, and maintained 
 
evaluation of whether the identified strategies and measures can achieve the established 
accident management objectives 
 
review of the supporting accident analysis including computational aids for SAM 
 
evaluation of reactor equipment performance 
 
evaluation of reactor instrumentation performance for accident management monitoring 
 
verification and validation of the overall quality and usability of procedures and guidelines  
 
check of the interface between accident management and emergency preparedness  
 
review of responsibility allocation, staffing, personnel qualification, training needs, and 
performance 
 
review of accident management documentation and revisions 
In addition, completeness of the provisions important for implementing accident management 
strategies should be reviewed in relation to the basic safety principles and accident management 
requirements specified in section 3. All the identified provisions should be reviewed to evaluate 
whether they exist and can be implemented. The review should also identify if additional 
provisions are required to strengthen the ability of the reactor staff to manage an accident, 
including a severe accident, or evaluate if an absence of a provision leads to the weakness in 
defence in depth. 
6.2 
Evaluation of systems and equipment 
Reactor design capabilities for accident management, such as containment venting, hydrogen 
mitigation, and coolant make-up provisions should be identified and their effectiveness should be 
evaluated. 
For the systems and equipment that are expected to perform in a way or under conditions that 
were not considered in their original design, the licensee should conduct an assessment of their 
potential availability, effectiveness, and limitations for use in support of SAM. Existing systems 
may warrant design enhancement if the assessment reveals that the consequences of severe 
accidents are such that the existing systems may not provide the desired preventive and mitigating 
capabilities. 
Essential reactor monitoring features and instrumentation for diagnosing reactor state should be 
identified and assessed for severe accident conditions in providing data.  
The validation of integrated accident management should also include an assessment of 
supplementary equipment (or EME) and consumables (fuel and water inventories) used to 
maintain or restore nuclear fuel and containment cooling for coping with beyond-design-basis 
initiating events. 
6.3 
Assessment of resources 
The licensee should perform an assessment to determine the availability of coolant, energy, and 
other materiel resources that may be required for the completion of accident management actions. 
For procurement of external resources (e.g., equipment, power, water and personnel), the licensee 
should assess the arrangements with other organizations to ensure availability, timing and access 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
22 
 
to these resources during accidents, with consideration of challenges posed by common cause 
and/or external events. These arrangements should be formalized and documented. 
7. 
Guidance for Documentation of Integrated Accident Management  
To satisfy the requirements specified in section 3 pertinent to the documentation of integrated 
accident management, the licensee should consider the following guidance. 
Aspects of accident management should be described by a suite of accident management 
documents consisting of manuals, procedures, guidelines together with their technical basis and 
supporting safety analysis reports for justifications, explanations, verification and validation. 
There are also other related documents such as description of the reactor physical protection, PSA 
studies, equipment and instrumentation survivability assessments, and reactor “stress test” reports 
as appropriate. 
At a minimum, the licensee should provide the following documented information: 
 
goals and principles used for development and implementation of the accident management  
 
technical basis and results of probabilistic and deterministic analyses conducted in support of 
accident management  
 
EOPs, EMEGs if applicable, and SAMGs 
 
performance capabilities for the systems and equipment that are used in support of accident 
management procedures and actions 
 
responsibilities of persons and organizations involved in accident management, including 
requirements and plans for personnel training 
 
results of the accident management validation and reviews 
The technical basis documents provide technical information important to the identified accident 
management measures. They can build on or provide a cross-reference to the existing technical 
descriptions. They should include, but not be limited to: 
 
justification of accident selection and coverage, including a general description of reactor 
response to accidents 
 
distinct stages of an accident progression if no accident management actions are credited 
 
understanding of phenomena and the associated physical processes, including challenges to 
fission product barriers and the associated mechanisms and conditions 
 
state of the current knowledge of the phenomena, including current predictive capabilities for 
modeling the phenomena and physical processes and analytical and experimental supports 
 
other aspects or special topics important to EOP and SAMG development and verification 
Reviews and revisions of the accident management documents should be tracked and controlled. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
23 
 
Appendix A: Overlapping Provisions of Accident Management and Emergency 
Preparedness  
The illustration presented in this Appendix is not a mandatory part of this regulatory document and is 
provided for information only. 
 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
24 
 
 
Abbreviations 
 
Abbreviation 
Full term 
AOO 
anticipated operational occurrence 
BDBA 
beyond-design-basis accident 
CNSC 
Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission 
CSA 
Canadian Standards Association 
DBA 
design-basis accident 
DEC 
design extension condition 
EOP 
emergency operating procedure 
EME 
emergency mitigating equipment 
EMEG 
emergency mitigating equipment guidelines 
IAEA 
International Atomic Energy Agency 
NSCA 
Nuclear Safety and Control Act 
PSA 
probabilistic safety assessment 
SAM 
severe accident management 
SAMG 
severe accident management guideline 
SSCs 
structures, systems and components 
 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
25 
 
Glossary 
accident management 
The taking of a set of actions during the evolution of an accident to prevent the escalation of the accident, 
to mitigate the consequences of the accident, and to achieve a long-term safe stable state after the 
accident. 
anticipated operational occurrence 
An operational process deviating from normal operation that is expected to occur at least once during the 
operating lifetime of a reactor facility but which, in view of the appropriate design provisions, does not 
cause any significant damage to items important to safety or lead to accident conditions. 
arrangements 
The pre-determined integrated set of infrastructural elements necessary to provide the capability for 
performing a specified function or task required in response to a nuclear or radiological emergency. These 
elements may include hardware (e.g., equipment and instrumentation), authorities and responsibilities, 
materiel and human resources, organization, co-ordination, communication, and training. 
beyond-design-basis accident 
Accident conditions less frequent and potentially more severe than a design-basis accident. A beyond- 
design-basis accident may or may not involve core degradation. 
beyond-design-basis initiating event 
Any initiating event that is not considered in the design of the facility including external hazards that are 
beyond the design basis such as large seismic loads, tsunamis, flooding by extreme high water level, 
damage by extreme weather conditions (e.g., hurricanes, ice-rains, sandstorms, etc.), or man-made actions 
or structures, such as airplane crashes, transport accidents, nearby chemical plants, gas pipes or river 
dams. 
cliff-edge effect 
A large increase in the severity of consequences caused by a small change of conditions. Note: cliff-edge 
effects can be caused by changes in the characteristics of the environment, the event, or changes in the 
reactor response. 
complementary design feature 
A design feature added to the design as a stand-alone structure, system or component (SSC), or added 
capability to an existing SSC, enabling them to cope with design extension conditions. 
Note: Complementary design features may also be referred to as “additional safety features”. 
corium 
A lava-like molten mixture of portions of nuclear reactor core. 
design-basis accident 
Accident conditions for which a reactor facility is designed, according to established design criteria, and 
for which the damage to the fuel and the release of radioactive material are kept within authorized limits. 
design extension conditions 
A subset of beyond-design-basis accidents that are considered in the design process of the facility in 
accordance with best-estimate methodology to keep releases of radioactive material within acceptable 
limits. Design extension conditions could include severe accident conditions. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
26 
 
deterministic safety analysis 
An analysis of nuclear reactor facility responses to an event, which is performed using predetermined 
rules and assumptions (e.g., those concerning the initial operational state, availability and performance of 
the systems and operator actions). Deterministic analysis can use either conservative or best-estimate 
methods. 
emergency operating procedures 
Reactor specific procedures containing instructions to operating staff for implementing measures to 
terminate some anticipated operational occurrences and to prevent core degradation in design-basis 
accidents and/or beyond-design-basis accidents. 
emergency response procedures 
A set of instructions with a detailed description of the actions to be taken by response personnel during an 
emergency. 
emergency response 
The integrated set of equipment, procedures and personnel necessary to provide the capability for 
performing a specified function or task required in order to prevent, mitigate or control the effects of an 
accidental release. 
emergency response organization or team 
Group of inter-related responders whose role is to mitigate the consequences of an emergency. An 
emergency response organization involves pre-defined coordination of roles and responsibilities. 
emergency response arrangements 
See arrangements. 
external event 
Any event that proceeds from the environment external to a reactor facility and that can cause failure of 
structures, systems and/or components. External events include, but are not limited to, earthquakes, floods 
and hurricanes. 
human factors 
Factors that influence human performance as they relate to the safety of a nuclear facility, including 
activities during design, construction, commissioning, operation, maintenance and decommissioning 
phases. 
human performance 
The outcomes of human behaviours, functions and actions in a specified environment, reflecting the 
ability of workers and management to meet the system’s defined performance under the conditions in 
which the system will be employed. 
internal event 
An event internal to the reactor facility that results from human error or failure in a structure, system or 
component. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
27 
 
licensing basis  
A set of requirements and documents for a regulated facility or activity comprising: 
 
the regulatory requirements set out in the applicable laws and regulations 
 
the conditions and safety and control measures described in the facility’s or activity’s licence and the 
documents directly referenced in that licence 
 
the safety and control measures described in the licence application and the documents needed to 
support that licence application 
long-term safe stable state 
A state in which fuel in the core or the spent fuel pool is submerged in water, the associated reactivity is 
controlled to remain subcritical, and a long-term decay heat removal from the fuel is achieved and 
maintained. 
normal operation 
Operation of a reactor facility within specified operational limits and conditions, including start-up, power 
operation, shutting down, shutdown, maintenance, testing and refuelling. 
offsite 
The facilities and organizations outside the juridical consideration of the licensed facility, including the 
various federal, provincial and municipal organizations that are required to communicate with and 
respond to a facility accident in accordance with the facility accident management procedures. 
onsite 
The physical domain of the facility to which a licence is granted. 
plant design envelope 
The range of conditions and events (including design extension conditions) that are explicitly taken into 
account in the design of the nuclear power plant, such that it can be reasonably expected that significant 
radioactive releases would be practically eliminated by the planned operation of process and control 
systems, safety systems, safety support systems and complementary design features. 
post accident 
A long-term safe stable state that is achieved in the reactor facilities after an accident. 
practically eliminated 
The possibility of certain conditions occurring being physically impossible or with a high level of 
confidence to be extremely unlikely to arise. 
safety analysis 
Analysis by means of appropriate analytical tools that establishes and confirms the design basis for the 
items important to safety; and ensures that the overall facility design is capable of meeting the acceptance 
criteria for each reactor state. 
safety system 
A system important to safety, provided to ensure the safe shutdown of the reactor or the residual heat 
removal from the core, or to limit the consequences of anticipated operational occurrences and design- 
basis accidents. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
28 
 
severe accident 
An accident more severe than a design-basis accident, and involving severe fuel degradation in the reactor 
core or spent fuel pool. 
severe accident management 
Mitigating the consequences of a severe accident to achieve a long-term safe stable state. 
severe accident management guidelines 
A set of recommendations for actions to take when handing severe accidents. 
shutdown state 
A subcritical reactor state with a defined margin to prevent a return to criticality without external actions. 
supplementary equipment 
Equipment and instruments that are not installed as part of the original plant design, but are used as an 
additional provision to mitigate the consequences of an accident. An example is the emergency mitigating 
equipment (EME). The use of EME is covered in the EME guidelines (EMEG). 
structures, systems and components 
A general term encompassing all of the elements of a facility or activity that contribute to protection and 
safety. Structures are the passive elements: buildings, vessels, shielding, etc. A system comprises several 
components, assembled in such a way as to perform a specific (active) function. A component is a 
discrete element of a system. Examples are wires, transistors, integrated circuits, motors, relays, 
solenoids, pipes, fittings, pumps, tanks, and valves. 
usability 
The extent to which a product can be used by specified users, to achieve specified goals, with 
effectiveness, efficiency and satisfaction in a specified context of use. 
validation (for human factors) 
The process of determining the degree to which the human-machine system design and supporting 
mechanisms facilitate the achievement of overall safety and operational goals. 
verification (for human factors) 
The process of demonstrating that equipment and system have been designed as specified, and that 
adherence to human factors guidelines has been maintained. 
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
29 
 
References 
1. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safety Fundamentals No. SF-1, IAEA Safety Standards 
for Protection People and the Environment - Fundamental Safety Principles, Vienna, Austria, 2006. 
2. IAEA Safety Standards Series No. NS-G-2.15, STI/PUB/1376, Severe Accident Management 
Programmes for Nuclear Power Plants - Safety Guide, Vienna, Austria, 2009. 
3. IAEA Safety Reports Series No. 32, STI/PUB/1167, Implementation of Accident Management 
Programmes in Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, Austria, 2004. 
4. IAEA Services Series No. 9, IAEA-SVS-09, Guidelines for the Review of Accident Management 
Programmes in Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, Austria, 2003.  
5. Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC), REGDOC-2.10.1, Nuclear Emergency Preparedness 
and Response, Ottawa, 2014. 
6. IAEA Specific Safety Requirements No. SSR-2/2, Safety of Nuclear Power Plants: Commissioning 
and Operation (Requirement 19: Accident management programme), Vienna, Austria, 2011.  
7. IAEA INSAG-10, Defence in Depth in Nuclear Safety, Vienna, Austria, 1997 
8. IAEA INSAG-12, 75-INSAG-3 Rev. 1, Basic Safety Principles for Nuclear Power Plants, Vienna, 
1999 IAEA INSAG-10, Defence in Depth in Nuclear Safety, Vienna, Austria, 1996.  
9. IAEA TECDOC-1440, Overview of Training Methodology for Accident Management at Nuclear 
Power Plants, Vienna, Austria, 2005.  
10. CSA Group N286, Management System Requirements for Nuclear Facilities, Mississauga.  
11. CNSC, G-276, Human Factors Engineering Program Plans, Ottawa, 2003.  
12. CNSC, G-323, Ensuring the Presence of Sufficient Qualified Staff at Class I Nuclear Facilities – 
Minimum Staff Complement, Ottawa, 2007.  
September 2015 
REGDOC-2.3.2, Accident Management, Version 2 
 
 
30 
 
CNSC Regulatory Document Series 
Facilities and activities within the nuclear sector in Canada are regulated by the Canadian Nuclear Safety 
Commission (CNSC). In addition to the Nuclear Safety and Control Act and associated regulations, these 
facilities and activities may also be required to comply with other regulatory instruments such as 
regulatory documents or standards. 
Effective April 2013, the CNSC’s catalogue of existing and planned regulatory documents has been 
organized under three key categories and twenty-five series, as set out below. Regulatory documents 
produced by the CNSC fall under one of the following series: 
1.0  
Regulated facilities and activities 
Series 1.1  
Reactor facilities 
1.2  
Class IB facilities 
1.3  
Uranium mines and mills 
1.4  
Class II facilities 
1.5  
Certification of prescribed equipment 
1.6  
Nuclear substances and radiation devices 
2.0  
Safety and control areas 
Series 2.1  
Management system 
2.2  
Human performance management 
2.3  
Operating performance 
2.4  
Safety analysis 
2.5  
Physical design 
2.6  
Fitness for service 
2.7  
Radiation protection 
2.8  
Conventional health and safety 
2.9  
Environmental protection 
2.10 
Emergency management and fire protection 
2.11 
Waste management 
2.12 
Security 
2.13 
Safeguards and non-proliferation 
2.14 
Packaging and transport 
3.0  
Other regulatory areas  
Series 3.1  
Reporting requirements 
3.2  
Public and Aboriginal engagement 
3.3  
Financial guarantees 
3.4  
Commission proceedings 
3.5  
CNSC processes and practices 
Note: The regulatory document series may be adjusted periodically by the CNSC. Each regulatory 
document series listed above may contain multiple regulatory documents. For the latest list of regulatory 
documents, visit the CNSC’s website at nuclearsafety.gc.ca/eng/acts-and-regulations/regulatory-
documents 
 
